1/75

 File No.: PS/00281/2021

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and with
based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party) files a claim with the
Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) dated 02/25/2021.
The claim is directed against VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397 (in
forward, the claimed party or VODAFONE). The claim is based on the fact that the
claimed has registered a prepaid telephone line associated with the NIF of the
claimant, who denies having hired her; have consulted the information system
EQUIFAX credit card using the NIF of the claimant as search criteria
despite not having a legitimate interest for such treatment; has not attended
rights of access and deletion exercised by the claimant and has responded to their
deletion request that, since there is a line linked to your NIF, "you will not be able to delete
your data until the expiration date of the line does not arrive as long as the
owner does not carry out any recharge”.

The claimant has provided annexes to the claim with these documents:

1. Copy of eight emails you exchanged from your email address,
***USER.1@gmail.com,
address
derechosprotecciondatos@vodafone.es.

  VODAFONE

 with

in

the

 

 

1.1.- Dated 12/19/2020, sent by the claimant, in which she requests access to
your data that may appear in the VODAFONE records and with which it sends you
a copy of your ID.

1.2.- From 12/21/2020 at 7:20 p.m., sent by VODAFONE, in which he responds
that, in view of your request for access, in accordance with article 15 of the GDPR,
“We regret to inform you that you are not entitled to obtain the right
of access with respect to personal data (National Identity Document)
that appear in the VODAFONE ESPAÑA system since you do not register in the
himself as the owner of the required data. We remind you that, if you wish, you can
exercise your rights of deletion, access, limitation, rectification and portability
by sending a written communication, accompanied by a copy of your ID or
equivalent identification document, to the address [...]” (The underlining is ours)

1.3.- From 12/21/2020 at 8:21 p.m., sent by the complaining party with this text:
"A complaint filed with the national police due to a usurpation of
my identity, for which I am requesting access to the personal data that
may appear related to my ID or name, since you have consulted
my data on 09/15/2020 18:40:27 in an Equifax file illegitimately
I have no contract or relationship with you." The claimant refers to the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/75

requested a copy of the police report, your ID and your request to exercise the
Right of access.

1.4.- From 12/29/2020, sent by VODAFONE with an identical response to that of the
electronic message sent to the claimant on 12/21/2020.

1.5.- Of 01/24/2021, sent by the claimant, in which she exercises the right to
deletion of your data. The text is the following: "This email is sent to request the
deletion of my data from their databases, since they do not provide me with the
information related to my ID, and they should not have any of my data since
I have no relationship with Vodafone. Attached:
-Application signed. -DNI -And expansion of the complaint in which it has been provided to
the national police the information that they indicate to me together with that of other companies. [...]”

1.6.- Of 01/26/2021, from VODAFONE, in which it responds:
“[...] In view of your request, in which you exercise the right to delete your data
personal in accordance with article 17 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 [...]
We regret to inform you that this entity cannot generate the deletion of the
data requested since they are necessary to provide the service to the line
prepaid ***PHONE.1, we understand the purpose of your request, however and
In case of not recognizing the product we could generate a rectification of data
so that the service is in your name and you can use it; we emphasize
that prepaid products cannot be deactivated, failing that we can
wait for the card to expire (approximately the expiration date is estimated at
June 2021 if recharges are not generated), after that it could require again
your right of erasure.” (The underlining is ours)

1.7.- From 02/01/2021, from the claimant, with this text: “[...] They tell me from the channel
from Vodafone Spain from facebook who opened petition number 10915XXXX to
fraud department, where they notify that there is indeed an error and that it is
solved. Can you confirm the deletion of my data? [...] ”

1.8.- From 02/03/2021, sent by VODAFONE, in which it says that “[...] In response to
your email, we must inform you that the line ***TELEPHONE.1 corresponding to the
file registered with your National Identity Document number has expired
by our fraud area in order to avoid any type of use, however
it still registers in our system and will only be disconnected until the month of
June 2021, which makes it impossible for your data to be deleted from our system.
However, the data protection department generates a general statement
alerting all our areas to omit any type of management on the file
fraudulent, annexed to it we generate the opposition to the treatment and use of the data with
commercial purpose.
Finally, we make the clarification that your request (Deletion of data) only
It can be attended until the date previously stated (June 2021), therefore
It is necessary that you send us this request at the end of the month indicated.
We remind you that, if you wish, you can exercise your rights of access, rectification,
limitation, opposition and portability by sending a written communication,
accompanied by a copy of your ID or equivalent identification document, to the address
[...]” (emphasis added)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/75

2. Copy of the complaint filed at the police station on 12/11/2020 and the
Extension of complaint dated 01/23/2021.

2.1. Complaint of 12/11/2020 (Certificate XXXXX/20) in which the claimant exposes the
events that occurred on 11/12/2020: when activating the credit card of the financial institution
ING receives a text message denying activation as it is included in the
file BADEXCUG. After consulting the reason for inclusion, since it does not have any
debt, they respond that there is an outstanding debt derived from a purchase
carried out on the internet with the company Sequra for an amount of XXX.XX€. contact
with that company, which sends you a copy of a contract with your personal data if
well the second last name and the letter of the DNI are wrong. The claimant informs them that
she has not made any purchase and they answer that she should file a complaint
in the police.

To questions from the agent who draws up the report, he states that he has not lost his
documentation and that the data could be obtained from the BOE since it has requested
several scholarships and their data have been published with the same error. To the question of
agent regarding whether something similar had happened to him previously, he replies that
tried to register through his mobile application in the chain "(...)" and
reported that there was already another person discharged with his name, but he did not give
importance.

2.2. Certificate XXX/21. This complaint is an extension of "the initial XXXXX/20 of
09/11/2020 and extension of XXXXX/20 of 12/15/20”. The complainant provides, in
relation to the phone that was allegedly purchased with your personal data,
the following data used by the perpetrators of the act provided by the company with
the one that supposedly hired: email ***USER.2@outlook.com. Date
birth 08/17/19XX.

3. A document with the EQUIFAX anagram, dated "11/12/2020", with the
result of the searches carried out by the identifier NIF ***NIF.1 (the one of the
claimant) In the section "Operations in the Asnef file", there is no data. In it
In the "History of queries" section, a query made on
09/15/2020 at 18:40.27.8. by Vodafone Ono, S.A.U.

4. Various screenshots obtained from the page that VODAFONE has on
Facebook with fragments of the conversation held through the chat between
both. The claimant says: "you can consult the email thread that I kept with
Vodafone data protection. I sent them a photocopy of the ID, police report
and they have false data in their databases [...]”. The defendant answers: "What do you
It seems if we review your case from here? Provide us with your customer information (name,
surnames, telephone and ID) to be able to manage what you need. The claimant
warns that she is not a client of the operator and refuses to provide any
document, despite the insistence of the requested entity. The last catch of
screen includes the response of the defendant in which she states that, from the
fraud department, "through the request we sent yesterday no.
10915XXXX, they have classified it as an error, which from said department they have
remedied.” The date of 01/31/2021 is recorded.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/75

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
forward, LOPDGDD), the claim was transferred to the defendant so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements established in the regulations of
Data Protection.

On 07/05/2021, the response from VODAFONE was received stating that it has
communicated to the claimant that, on 05/27/2021, she has complied
effective to your right of erasure. Provide a copy of the letter dated 06/25/2021
addressed to the claimant (document annex 1) in which, although it informs her of the
deletion of your data there is no reference to the date of 05/27/2021.

The defendant responded to the transfer actions carried out by this Agency in
the following terms:

1.About the causes that led to the incident that gave rise to the claim,
“confirms” that on 12/19/2020 the claimant exercised the right of access to her data and
who responded on 12/21/2020 informing him that "she is not legitimized to
obtain the right of access with respect to personal data (Document
National Identity) that appears in the system of my [the defendant] since Mrs.
[the claimant] is not registered as the holder of the required data.” "This is because
because the data of Mrs. [the claimant] were related to a third party who
used the data of the Interested Party fraudulently. In this case, the only data
the claimant's staff that is related to this fraud is the DNI, reason why
which in the evidence that is provided of the systems of my represented appears
information from a third party "B.B.B.", with the DNI of the claimant ***NIF.1.” Add that
the claimant exercised the right of access again on 12/21/2020 and that he responded
in the same terms of your reply dated 12/21/2020.

In addition, it acknowledges that the claimant requested the deletion of her data and that
responded on 01/26/2021 that "in this case, the service contracted and related to
your data is a prepaid service, which means that once issued it will not be
You can unsubscribe until it expires. In this regard, Ms. [complainant] is advised
that the service is scheduled to expire in June 2021.”

It states that the claimant went to Facebook and that she was informed through this channel that she was
had informed the Fraud department of the company to analyze his
case; that, after receiving this information, the claimant sent him an email on 02/01/2021
requesting the deletion of their data to which the defendant responds on 02/03/2021
“informing the [claimant] that the case has been registered as fraudulent for
avoid any further use of your data. However, you are informed that
the line, being prepaid, cannot be disconnected until June 2021, which
that makes it impossible for the data of the Interested Party to be deleted from the system of my
represented.”

2. Regarding the measures adopted to prevent incidents from occurring
similar, VODAFONE responded that the events "have been caused by fraud
from a third party by overcoming the security policies of [the claimed carrier]
satisfactorily, because to carry out the registration of a prepaid line, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/75

display of an official identification document to store agents
of [the claimed operator].” Indicates that he was not aware of the existence of this
fraud until notified by the claimant and that at that time "it was
initiates a procedure to verify the facts and remedy the situation.” (He
underlined is ours)

It states that, as a consequence of this process, the Fraud department classified
the situation as fraudulent and generated a general statement alerting all
the areas of the company to omit any type of management on the file
fraudulent.
 
The attached document 3 that VODAFONE has provided reflects the information contained
in the tab "Info. of Contact", linked to the NIF of the claimant, which is associated
to the name of B.B.B., in which under the heading "Form>Notice Detail" appears this
legend: “Do not generate changes to this file. Do not register any type of product,
is classified as fraud. The data registered in the client are erroneous and
belong to another user.” (The underlining is ours)

3. The defendant declares that it has complied with the request of the claimant to delete
their data from their systems, "prior blocking of the data of the interested party" and contributes to such
order, in addition to the letter that he addressed to you on 06/25/2021 (annex document 1), as
attached document 4 various screenshots with the following information:

In the "Customer registration" tab, the reference appears with the "Order number V"
***REFERENCE.1; as "Title" "Prepaid Installation With..." and as "F. Opening"
“11/17/2020”. In the lower box, "Requests, claims, breakdowns", are recorded
several claims, including one dated 01/26/2021 with this information: As
“Type”, consists of “Fraud”; as "Code", "possible fraud" and as "Subcode",
"Impersonation".

In the tab "Info. Contact" contains the NIF of the claimant. A screen
pop-up asks if you want to perform the data cancellation action for that NIF
and the option “yes” is marked on it. In the following screenshot a message
popup says no contact found matching the criteria
search.

THIRD: On 06/2/2021, the claim made by the
claimant. In accordance with article 65.5 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, protection of personal data and guarantee of rights
(LOPDGDD), that decision was notified to the claimant on 06/2/2021.

FOURTH: Initial agreement.

On 02/03/2022, the Director of the AEPD agrees to start the procedure
sanctioning VODAFONE in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of the
articles 6.1. (two infractions) 15 and 17 of the GDPR, typified, respectively, in the
Articles 83.5.a) and 83.5.b) of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/75

The startup agreement was notified to VODAFONE electronically, as planned
in the LPACAP as evidenced by the certificate issued by the FNMT that is in the
proceedings.

FIFTH: Request for extension of term and copy of the file.

By letter received at the AEPD on 02/14/2022, VODAFONE requests that
extend the period initially granted to make allegations and that it be delivered
a copy of the file.

The AEPD, by means of a letter that the defendant received on 02/21/2022, notifies her that
grants, for the maximum allowed by article 32.1 of the LPACAP, the extension of
period requested and sends you a copy of the documentation.

SIXTH: Allegations to the initiation agreement.

On 02/28/2022 VODAFONE presents its allegations to this Agency to the
opening in which, in relation to the infringement of article 15 of the GDPR, requests
"Have recognized the responsibility of Vodafone Ono, S.A.U."

Regarding the remaining violations of the GDPR that were attributed to him in the agreement of
initiation - violation of articles 6.1. and 17 of the GDPR- denies its commission and requests
the dismissal of the file with the consequent archiving of the proceedings.
Subsidiarily, in the event that a sanction is imposed, it requests that it
set at the minimum amount in application of the mitigating circumstances whose concurrence it invokes.

In support of its claims, it alleges the following:

1. First, he delimits "the object of the debate" and makes a list of what he considers
are "some facts, stripped of any legal assessment, which we understand to be
are relevant and should be taken into account when deciding on the taxation of
sanctions against Vodafone and, if necessary, on their amount.":
 

<<1. The facts refer to a single interested party (the Complainant) who is not
Vodafone customer.
2. The only personal data of the Claimant that was processed by Vodafone was the
Regarding your National Identity Document ("DNI"): ***NIF.1.
3. Said personal data is available, along with the name and surname
of the Claimant, (…).
4. On September 15, 2020, Vodafone made a query in the
credit information and Equifax with the Claimant's DNI. Likewise, in
September 2020 up to a total of five different entities carried out
inquiries to Equifax with said NIF. Four of these consultations were carried out on 16
September 2020, one day after the one carried out by Vodafone.
5. On November 17, 2020, a third party, under the name of B.B.B. (he
"Third Party"), registered a prepaid card using the DNI number of the
claimant.
6. The prepaid card was not registered in the name of the Claimant, but of the
own Third.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/75

7. The Claimant's DNI number, as she herself admits and as stated
accredited in the file, has been used for third parties to hire or
try contracting other services and make purchases that have nothing
to do with Vodafone.
8. As Claimant admits, identity theft does not occur
as a consequence of Vodafone's conduct, but prior to the
Third Party contact with Vodafone: "After requesting access to various files
of defaulters due to identity theft, it is observed that Vodafone
ONO SAU has consulted my DNI in ASNEF Equifax.>> (The underlining is
our)

2. The issues on which VODAFONE pronounces itself in its writ of
allegations to the start agreement are these:

(i) VODAFONE "has not infringed article 6.1 of the GDPR in any of the
data processing identified in the Initiation Agreement": A) Registration of the mobile line
prepayment "in the name of the claimant"; and B) consultation of an information file
linked to the claimant's DNI.
(ii) Secondarily, in the event that the AEPD understands that there has been
offense, alleges that "there is no fault in the offenses charged [...] and, in
Consequently, no sanction can be imposed."
(iii) VODAFONE has acknowledged responsibility for the violation of article 15 of the
GDPR regarding the right of access.
(iv) VODAFONE denies having infringed article 17 of the GDPR, regarding the right to
suppression.
(v) Secondarily, "in the event that it is understood that Vodafone has infringed
articles 6.1 and/or 17 of the GDPR and, in the case of infringement of article 6.1,
considers that a sanction can be imposed on the claimed party, they must take into account
into account the extenuating circumstances" that he invokes in the sixth allegation of his
written.

The considerations that VODAFONE makes on each of the issues
These are, in summary, the following:

(i) 1. Violation of article 6.1. of the GDPR: registration of the prepaid mobile line in the name
of the claimant.

He begins by exposing what, in his opinion, is the position held by the AEPD in the
startup agreement.

"The Agency understands that "the treatment of the NIF of the claimant linked to the
contracting a prepaid line in the name of B.B.B. [the Third Party], line that the
claimed registered on November 17, 2020, was not founded in
none of the legitimizing circumstances of the treatment provided for in the
article 6.1 GDPR", and that therefore the precept would be infringed.

Continuing with its argument, the Agency affirms that Vodafone "must be able to
certify that the person with whom you contracted and identified with certain
personal data -particularly the NIF of the claimant- was effectively his
owner", as well as that Vodafone "has not provided any evidence that proves

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/75

that, when contracting the line associated with the claimant's NIF, he acted
with the diligence that is required in compliance with the principle of legality; principle
which it is obliged to respect and compliance with which it must be able to demonstrate".
According to the Agency, the "mere display of an identification document [...]
constitutes a clearly ineffective and insufficient measure".

Next, it makes this "clarification": that the third party that intervened in the contracting
he did not contract the line "in the name of the claimant" but in his own name.

"First of all, we want to clarify that we are not dealing with a case of
identity theft in which a third party has contracted a line or
requested a duplicate SIM card "in the name of the claimant" (this is stated
manifestly erroneous and untrue, for example, in the
pages 31 and 42 of the Commencement Agreement). What has happened is that the Third,
using the claimant's DNI number, has registered a card
prepaid in your own name, not the claimant's.
In other words, the owner of the prepaid mobile line is the Third Party, not the
claimant.” (The underlining is ours)

Finally, VODAFONE denies having violated the principle of legality and considers that it
was entitled to process the NIF data of the claimant that the third party that
intervened in the recruitment facilitated. It does the following on the individual
statements:

Contrary to what the Agency thinks, Vodafone understands that it was
legitimized to process the personal data used by the Third Party – applicant
of a prepaid card –, including the ID number provided, question
Another thing is that the DNI data processed did not correspond to the Third Party, who is the one who
contract the prepaid card. Although we do not share the interpretation –
too strict, in our opinion – of the legitimizing legal basis of the
Article 6.1 b) of the GDPR that the Agency makes in the last paragraph of the page
 legal
15 of the Initiation Agreement, it turns out that the basis
 
  legitimizing that protects the
 
 
treatment of Vodafone is indicated in article 6.1 c) of the GDPR: the
compliance with a legal obligation.
This legal obligation is found in the Sole Additional Provision of the Law
25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to the
electronic communications and public communications networks (the “Law
25/2007”), which establishes that:

 

"1. Mobile telephone service operators that market services
with activation system through the modality of prepaid cards,
must keep a book-registry in which the identity of the clients that
acquire a smart card with said payment method.
Operators will inform customers, prior to the sale, of the
existence and content of the record, its availability under the terms
expressed in the following number and the rights included in the article
38.6 of Law 32/2003.
The identification will be made by means of a document accrediting the
personality, recording in the registry book the name, surnames and
nationality of the buyer, as well as the number corresponding to the document

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/75

identification used and the nature or name of said document. In it
case of legal persons, the identification will be made by providing the card
of fiscal identification, and the denomination will be recorded in the book-registration
social and tax identification code".

The defendant ends its argument with this statement:

"Vodafone is obliged by Law 25/2007 to treat the "corresponding number
to the identification document used" by the buyer of the prepaid card;
A different matter is that said number turns out to be wrong or has been used
through fraud by a third party, but this may not imply, in any case,
a violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR.”

On the "degree of diligence" that he displayed in relation to the conduct that he has given
origin to the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR that was attributed to him in the agreement of
opening (registration of a prepaid line linked to the NIF of the claimant), considers that
It was the "right" one. Thus, it says: "In any case, the measures adopted by
Vodafone to prove the identity of the prepaid card applicant are not
ineffective or insufficient." (The emphasis is ours) In defense of that position
adduces:

"We believe it convenient to take as a starting point what is required by the legislation,
which we understand is the yardstick that should be taken by Vodafone and
the rest of the operators.
In the first place, the aforementioned Law 25/2007, a rule directly applicable to
Vodafone, indicates that mobile phone service operators that
commercialize prepaid cards must prove the identity of the customers who
acquire one of these cards "through a document accrediting the
personality, recording in the registry book the name, surnames and
nationality of the buyer, as well as the number corresponding to the document
identification used and the nature or name of said document".
The norm does not require that a copy of the DNI be kept, but only of the data that
in the document provided.
Likewise, although Organic Law 5/1985, of June 19, of the Regime
General Electoral, it is not applicable to the case, it does serve as a button
of sample in order to demonstrate that the exhibition of a DNI is sufficient to
identify the person who is going to exercise one of the fundamental rights for
antonomasia, the right to vote.”

VODAFONE adds that "the identification obligation has been duly
transferred by that entity to its wholesaler, Sercom Soluciones, S.L. ("Sercom") that, to
in turn, signed an agreement with the point of sale that registered the prepaid card to the
Third." We refer to the stipulations of the contracts entered into between
VODAFONE and SERCOM and between the latter and the point of sale
***ESTABLISHMENT.1 that are reproduced at the end of this Antecedent.

Continuing with the question of the diligence that it claims to have deployed, the defendant
Add:

"For the rest, in its Commencement Agreement the Agency would be demanding Vodafone
and, by extension, to thousands of Vodafone points of sale and the rest of
telephone operators, to implement, for example, a software for

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/75

scanning and verification of DNIs: "The mere display of a document
identification, to which the defendant alludes - she affirms that the third party who contracted
exceeded company security policy by displaying the document
identification - constitutes a clearly ineffective and insufficient measure that is
far below the possibilities that current technical development offers and that
does not take into account the obvious risk that the contracting of services that
The claimed commercializes represents for the rights and freedoms of the
people".

The foregoing means demanding from Vodafone a degree of diligence totally
excessive and outside the market standard: not only is it superior to the
standards dictated by the applicable regulations (we refer to Law 25/2007),
but it is not followed even in actions as sensitive as exercising
the right to vote.

Having said this, if the Agency intends to increase the requirements in terms of
identification incorporating conservation obligations and technical verification
of documents, what proceeds is to approve rules to that end but, in no case,
Vodafone may be accused of negligence or lack of soundness of the measures
taken at this time, but first the aforementioned
rules and later, if applicable, penalize the operator that does not
apply, but what is not in accordance with the law is to try to use directly
the disciplinary route as a method of setting security parameters
demandable.

In fact, in this particular case there is no possibility for the
private operators to check if the ID number corresponds
effectively to the person who claims to be the owner and accredits it with a document
that can be manipulated. Otherwise, it would go against the regulations of
data protection, and that is that the only way to avoid fraud like the one that has
origin of this file would be that Vodafone had access to a database
data that would allow verifying that if the ID number used by the
applicant actually belongs to the applicant in question.” (The underlining is
our)

2. Violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR: consultation of the EQUIFAX file linked to the
NIF of the claimant made on 09/15/2020.

VODAFONE denies the alleged infringement and thus summarizes the position held by the
AEPD in the opening agreement:

“The Agency considers that: 1. There is no evidence linking the consultation
made to Equifax on September 15, 2020 with the registration of the prepaid line
made on November 17, 2020, [...]. 2. In the event that the consultation does not
was linked to the registration of the prepaid line, Vodafone would not have
"provided information about the origin of the data processed and about what was the
reason for the consultation", so the treatment could not be classified as
"legitimate" in the sense of article 20.1 e) of the LOPDGDD.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/75

Next, he dedicates a specific section in his pleadings brief to underlining
that "the Claimant's ID number was used to carry out a multitude of
consultations": "As has been proven in the file, the number of the
Complainant was used by different actors (including Vodafone) to carry out
several consultations in mid-September”. He incorporates into his writing a relationship of
queries to the EQUIFAX file (a total of nine) made by seven entities
using as search criteria the NIF of the claimant during the
period of time between 06/19/2020 and 09/16/2020.

The defendant denies that consulting the EQUIFAX file constitutes an infringement
of the data protection regulations and maintains that "it was carried out respecting the
provided in article 20.1 e) of the LOPDGDD” and was related to “a
online request”.

Regarding the "online request" linked to the NIF of the claimant that she allegedly received
It does not provide any document that proves its existence. The information you provide
on the aforementioned "online application" consists of the statement that the product
on which the contracting request was concerned implied financing, payment
deferred or periodic billing, to conclude without further ado that the treatment was
included in the scope of application of article 20.1 e) of the LOPDGDD.

Next, he explains the differences between the registration of prepaid and postpaid products to
purposes of examining the creditworthiness of the client. It says that "registration of prepaid cards does not
they imply a process of scoring and consulting delinquency files. sayings
processes (including inquiry to Equifax) only apply to financings or
Vodafone products that involve deferred payment or periodic billing."

For the purposes of proof, it provides as documents 5 and 6, the "General Conditions of
Mobile Communications Services. Prepaid" and the "General Conditions of
Postpaid Mobile Communications Services. Individuals", respectively, and
indicates that its reading allows us to verify that, while those relating to services
postpaid, information is provided on the possibility that this entity verifies the solvency
of the client by means of consultations to patrimonial solvency and credit files
("Vodafone may verify the solvency of the Client through procedures
automated "scoring", by obtaining data from the entities
bank accounts provided by the Client or through asset solvency files and
credit"), this possibility is not mentioned in those relating to prepaid services.

For greater clarity, the following fragment of their allegations is transcribed:

“On September 15, 2020, Vodafone consulted the file
ASNEF with the DNI [...]. This query is in no way linked to the
prepaid card registration that took place in November 2020, two months
later, but with an online request. In this sense, the registration of cards
prepaid do not imply a process of scoring and consulting files of
late payment Such processes (including inquiry to Equifax) only apply to
financing or Vodafone products that involve a payment
deferred or periodic billing.[..]” (The underlining is ours)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/75

In short, the defendant denies the commission of the two violations of article 6.1 of the
GDPR that was attributed to him in the agreement to start the file and says that "In
Consequently, the sanction proposed by the Agency cannot be imposed on Vodafone.”

(ii) Subsidiarily, in the event that the AEPD understands that there were
the infractions that the defendant denies, it is alleged to the contrary that it is missing in both
cases the necessary element of guilt, which would prevent this Agency
penalize those behaviors.

1. The defendant affirms that she has acted at all times in compliance with the diligence
that it is required of him, that his conduct is not guilty, neither by fraud nor by
fault title.

He states that he has used the diligence that was required of him to identify the
prepaid card applicant because "has complied with the provisions of the Law
25/2007.”

It invokes as a basis article 28 of Law 40/2015, of the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector (LRJSP), which proclaims the principle of guilt in the field of
disciplinary administrative procedure and requires that the offending party be
responsible by way of fraud or negligence, and also refers to the judgment of the Court
Supreme Court of January 23, 1998 [RJ 1998\601]) in which the Court states that
"for the exculpation, the invocation of the absence of guilt will not suffice, but it will be
It is necessary that the diligence that was required by the person claiming their
nonexistence.”

It adds that "the National Court has understood, in cases in which a third party has
accessed, through criminal activities, data of the interested parties guarded by
a person in charge of the treatment (this is not the case, Vodafone did not keep the data of the
Complainant), that imputing such facts to the data controller could lead to
the violation of the principle of guilt.” For this purpose, the SAN, Chamber of the
Administrative Litigation, Section 1, of 02/25/2010. In consideration of what
exposed says: "In this case, we are dealing with a criminal practice carried out by
a third party who, acting fraudulently, has provided the ID number of a third party to the
request the registration of a prepaid card in their own name, passing the controls
established by Vodafone. Then, if the previous jurisprudence has resulted from
application in cases in which the data of the interested parties were guarded by the
responsible for the treatment, all the more reason it should also be applied to those
other cases in which the duty of custody does not weigh on the person responsible (who
can more, can less).

2. It alleges that, in this case, the processing of personal data of the claimant
"It has been due to the existence of human error, which are unavoidable and on which
Vodafone cannot have effective control.” Argue the following:

“[...] there may be cases, such as this one, in which Vodafone processes data
personal that does not belong to the prepaid card applicant, but to a third party
(the Claimant). This is what has happened in this case: it is evidence and it is not
we deny.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/75

In these (residual) assumptions, we would be faced with assumptions in which the
applicant (the Third Party), using tricks and using in his favor his
criminal experience, has managed to evade the controls established by Vodafone,
causing human error at the Point of Sale.
The Agency has ruled on numerous occasions on the errors
humans, stressing that they cannot be punished. For example,
in the Disciplinary Procedure PS/00210/2019 and in the Procedure
E/02877/2019, in which the Judgment of the National Court (Sala de
Litigation, Section 1) of December 23, 2013 [JUR 2014\15015], in
which in turn highlighted that: "The question, then, must be resolved in accordance with
the principles of punitive law given that mere human error does not
can give rise, by itself (and above all when it occurs with character
isolated), to the attribution of penalizing consequences; So, if it's done like that,
it would incur in a strict liability system prohibited by our order
constitutional".

And add below:

"In addition, if the National Court and the Agency have considered
human error as excusable in cases in which there was no
external element that induces the natural person in question to incur the
error, all the more so should the excusability of it be appreciated when it has
been a third party who, through criminal intent, has directly induced the
mistake." (The underlining is ours)

(iii) VODAFONE has acknowledged responsibility for the violation of article 15 of the
GDPR regarding the right of access. The defendant stated in this regard:

“As we have advanced in the previous Allegation, Vodafone
acknowledges its responsibility solely and exclusively for the violation of article
15 of the GDPR, which should entail a reduction of 20% of the
proposed sanction for this offense (100,000 euros). Also, in case of
that the payment be made before the resolution of this procedure, the
penalty should be reduced by an additional 20%, the amount to be paid being
60,000 euros.”

(iv) VODAFONE denies the infringement of article 17 of the GDPR derived from not having
proceeded to suppress the NIF data of the claimant when she exercised this
right.

He alleges that he acted correctly and that there is no violation of article 17 of the GDPR. TO
purpose of its response to the deletion of the NIF data requested by the claimant,
recognizes that the "wording" was "unfortunate" and says that what is relevant for the purposes of
Determining whether article 17 of the GDPR has been infringed is not so much the answer that is
provided to the claimant - "we do not deny that it was unfortunate" - but
respect on your part of the applicable regulations.

In defense of the fact that his action was in accordance with article 17 of the GDPR, he argues the
following:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/75

1.First of all, consistent with your first allegation, in which you deny the
violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR derived from having linked the registration of a
prepaid service to the NIF of the affected party, who did not intervene in the contracting of that
service, considers that there has been no illegal treatment of the NIF data of the
claimant.
 
It says about the individual that the treatment of the DNI number provided by the
third party applicant for the prepaid card "[...] is imposed by the provision
Unique Additional of Law 25/2007
 
 ” . And he adds that "Vodafone does not keep that data
(DNI number) related to the identity of the Complainant, but rather to the identity
(name and surname) of the Third Party. We refer to what has already been stated in the Allegation
First to avoid unnecessary repetitions.”

2. Secondly, it alleges that, in the factual assumption presented here, there were
two of the exceptions provided for in section 3 of article 17 of the GDPR:

On the one hand, the exception provided for in section b) of article 17.3: "The treatment
of the DNI number provided by the Third Party was necessary for Vodafone to
complies with a legal obligation (article 17.3 b) of the GDPR)”.

The legal obligation to process the DNI data and to keep it would be imposed by the
Sole Additional Provision and article 5, both of Law 25/2007. So, consider
that, according to the Additional Provision, "telephone operators are obliged to
to collect certain data from the applicant for a prepaid card, including "the
number corresponding to the identification document used””. and that he was bound
to keep the DNI "provided by
  the contracting party of the prepaid card" by virtue of the
conservation obligation of article 5 of Law 25/2007, precept that results
applicable to the NIF data "provided by the applicant for a prepaid card" under
of the reference to that article that makes point 2 of the Additional Provision.

 

On the other hand, it alleges that the exception of section e) of article 17.3 of the
GDPR. It states in this regard: “Likewise, Vodafone was empowered to keep the
data provided by the Third Party in the event that in the future said data is
necessary to formulate, exercise or defend against any claim. In this sense,
the fact that Vodafone had not associated with the
Claimant's identity, but with that of the Third Party, that is, who registered the
prepaid card, which had also been marked as "fraud".”

(v) Secondarily, in the event that it is understood that the defendant has infringed
articles 6.1 and/or 17 of the GDPR and, with respect to violations of article 6.1 of the
GDPR, it is concluded that a sanction can be imposed, rejects the application of
the aggravating factors that were appreciated in the initiation agreement and requests that the
mitigations it invokes. The defendant alleges, in summary, the following:

1. Violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR, specified in the registration of a prepaid line
linked to the NIF of the claimant:

He requests that the sanction be graduated downward. He denies that the aggravating circumstances
appreciated in the initiation agreement and makes the following considerations on purpose
of every one of them:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/75

1.1. Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the GDPR, the duration of the
infringement taking into account the purpose of the processing operation:

“The Agency considers that we are facing a "permanent infringement", [...].
We do not agree with the consideration of this circumstance as
aggravating[...]

In the first place, [...], Law 25/2007 (Sole Additional Provision in relation to
its article 5) imposes on the operator (Vodafone) the obligation to collect and
keep "the number corresponding to the identification document used".

Secondly, article 83.2 a) of the GDPR establishes that the "duration of the
offence" will be used as an aggravating or mitigating factor "taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question,
as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages
that they have suffered."

In the present case there is only one affected person (the Claimant) and no evidence has been
that damages have been generated.

Thirdly, the Judgments of the National Court of September 16,
2008 (Rec. 488/2006) and the Supreme Court of April 17, 2002 (Appeal
466/2000) cited in the Initiation Agreement are not applicable, since the
assumptions of fact and their nature are totally different. In both
rulings, which do not deal with the protection of personal data, we are before
repeated, conscious and active behavior on the part of the offenders,
elements that we did not find in the case of Vodafone.”

1.2. Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.d) of the GDPR, the "degree of
responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, taking into account the
technical or organizational measures that they have applied under articles 25 and
32”:

It refers to what was invoked in the first allegation regarding the request for the DNI to
prove the identity of the contracting party of a prepaid service. He adds that, "as regards
risks, we are not facing a case of identity theft in which the
service has been contracted "on behalf of" the Complainant, but has been
contracted by the Third Party in its own name using the DNI number of the
Claimant.”

1.3. Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.e) of the GDPR, "Any infringement
committed by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment”:

It shows its discrepancy with the criteria of the AEPD that it has considered "background
"pertinent" the events that occurred in the following disciplinary proceedings:
PS/00193/2021, PS/00186/2020, PS/00009/2020, PS/303/2020 and PS 348/2020.”
It stresses that these procedures dealt with cases in which a third party,
posing as the claimants, contracted products on behalf of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/75

claimants and the latter received the corresponding invoices, which has not
happened in the alleged trial now.

1.4. On the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.g) of the GDPR, "The categories
of the personal data affected by the infringement”:

It disagrees with the criteria of the Agency that "considers that, taking into account
the provisions of Recital 75 of the GDPR, the DNI number would be a "data
particularly sensitive insofar as a third party can supplant the
identity of a natural person with total ease, with the risks that this entails
for the privacy, honor and patrimony of the supplanted".

It justifies the non-application of the aggravating factor in that there has not been a usurpation of
identity; in which the claimant's NIF "was not exposed by Vodafone", but rather
appears published in the BOE and that it was not VODAFONE who provided the third party with the
personal data of the claimant, but rather that the third party was already in possession of that data.
We reproduce the text of his plea:

“In our opinion, there are several considerations to take into account.
First of all, Recital 75 of the GDPR refers to the fact that "the
treatment may give rise to problems of identity theft". In
In our case, unlike those cited by the Agency in the previous point, we do not
an identity theft has occurred: the Third Party has contracted in its
own name, not in the name of the Claimant. It is the Third Party who is the owner
of the prepaid card, not the Claimant.
Secondly, the DNI number (the only data affected) was not exposed by
Vodafone, but it was published – (…) – (…). (…).
In other words, it is not that Vodafone through its conduct has provided a third party with a
personal data, but that third party was already in possession of the personal data and
what it does is use it in fraud against the interested party and against the
Vodafone.”
(The underlining is ours)

It requests that the following mitigations be applied:

(Yo)

(ii)

The “absence of intentionality or negligence (article 83.2 b) of the
GDPR)”
The "cooperation with the supervisory authority by having answered the
transfer of the claim and having provided the requested information
(article 83.2 f) of the GDPR).

2. Violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR, specified in the consultation of the file of
EQUIFAX. He requests that the sanction be graduated downward. He denies the concurrence of the
aggravating factors appreciated in the initiation agreement and says in this sense:

2.1. Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2 a) of the GDPR, “The seriousness of
the infringement taking into account the purpose of the processing operation” reads:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/75

"The Agency considers that the query to the Equifax file "represents a very
serious interference in the private sphere of the claimant", since the Claimant did not
has no relationship with Vodafone.
Without prejudice to the fact that, as seen in the Second Allegation above, the
consultation was not related to the registration of the prepaid card, article 83.2
a) of the GDPR establishes that gravity will be used as an aggravating or mitigating factor
"taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the operation of
treatment in question, as well as the number of interested parties affected and the
level of damages they have suffered".
In the present case there is only one affected person (the Claimant) and no evidence has been
that damages have been generated."

 Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2 b) of the GDPR,

2.2.
intentionality or negligence in the infringement”, it says:

 "The

According to the Agency, Vodafone's lack of diligence would be "serious", since the
treatment "was carried out without having previously verified if it had the legitimacy
necessary".
As stated in the Second Allegation, Vodafone was entitled to
carry out the treatment in question under article 20.1 e) of the
LOPDGDD: the consultation was not related to the request for registration of the
prepaid card, but with a contract that supposes the financing, the payment
deferred or periodic billing.
For the rest, the ID number with which the query was made was provided
fraudulently by the Third Party, that is, it is not a consultation
done indiscriminately. Therefore, it will not be possible to appreciate a lack of
diligence, much less qualify it as serious.”

23. On the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2 e) of the GDPR, "Any previous infringement
committed by the data controller”, it says:

"The Agency considers that the precedents cited in the
rule on the first infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR:
PS/00193/2021, PS/00186/2020, PS/00009/2020, PS/303/2020 and PS 348/2020” and
which, consequently, refers to what is stated in point 3 regarding the
previous violation.

2.4. On the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2 g), "The categories of personal data
personnel affected by the infringement", refers to what is alleged for this circumstance in
point 4 of the offense analyzed above.

Requests that the following extenuating circumstances apply:

Cooperation with the supervisory authority, having responded to the transfer
of the claim and having provided the requested information, article 83.2 f)
of the GDPR.
That the alleged infringement does not extend over time, article 83.2 a) of the
GDPR and 76.2 a) of the LOPDGDD.
The non-existence of benefits obtained through the infringement, article
83.2 k) of the GDPR and article 76.2 c) of the LOPDGDD.

(Yo)

(ii)

(iii)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/75

3. Violation of article 17 of the GDPR. Requests the downward graduation of the amount of the
sanction. It rejects the application of the aggravating circumstances that were appreciated in the agreement of
start:

3.1. Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the GDPR, “The important
seriousness of the infringement taking into account the scope of the operation of
treatment," he says:

"The Agency blames Vodafone for an "absolute ignorance of the content of the
right" of suppression, ignoring, in the opinion of this Agency, "what are the
obligations that derive for it from article 17 of the GDPR".

That being said, with all due respect, we disagree with the character
generalized subjective assessment of the Agency. As we have shown in
the Fifth Allegation, to which we refer, although the Agency ends
understanding that Vodafone has infringed article 17 of the GDPR, there are
arguments to defend that it has acted in accordance with the provisions
in article 17 of the GDPR:
a) You have not treated the DNI number illegally.
b) In any case, it was obliged by law to keep said data and, in addition,
it was necessary for the formulation, exercise or defense of
claims

3.2. Regarding the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2 b) of the GDPR, "The
intentionality or negligence of the infringement”, it says:

"The Agency describes Vodafone's lack of diligence as "very serious" for not
having responded to "the deletion of the NIF data requested by the claimant despite
be obliged to do so in accordance with article 17.1 d) GDPR".
Although it is considered that the treatment of the DNI number provided by the
third party is unlawful (quod non), the obligation to
conservation imposed by Law 25/2007 which, in the opinion of this party, makes
that the infringement cannot be classified as "gross negligence".

It requests that these circumstances be applied as mitigating factors:

(Yo)

(ii)

Article 83.2.f) GDPR: "cooperation with the control authority having
responded to the transfer of the claim and provided the information
requested”.
Article 83.2.k) of the GDPR and 76.2.c) LOPDGDD: the "absence of
benefits obtained through the infringement”.

Finally, VODAFONE proposes as evidence the admission of the documents that
provides annexes to its allegations:

1. Screenshot "proving that the wholesaler who has signed a contract
with Vodafone is Sercom Soluciones, S.L. who, in turn, contracted with the point of
sale responsible for registering the prepaid card in question,
***ESTABLISHMENT.1”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/75

2. Copy of the non-exclusive Vodafone Prepaid Wholesale Distribution contract
signed on 06/01/2019 between Sercom Soluciones, S.L., (hereinafter SERCOM) and
VODAFONE.

The twelfth clause, dedicated to "Compliance with the
applicable regulations” which stipulates: Section 12.1:

"As a consequence of the development of wholesale distribution services, the
wholesaler may access certain personal data provided that,
through you or the Retail Points of Sale to which you supply, contract
VODAFONE services. For this reason, and in accordance with the
current regulations, the WHOLESALER will be considered as the person in charge of
processing, having to formalize the standard data processing agreement that
is attached as Annex III, through which your obligations in this
subject."

Section 12.2. says:

"Likewise, the Wholesaler will transfer all obligations in terms of
protection of personal data to retail outlets and
certify that they have transferred these obligations by signing a
standard certificate attached as document IV.” (The underlining is
our)

Section 12.3. "The Wholesaler declares to know and accept the policies of VODAFONE
related to Fraud, Risk and Protection of Information included in the Annex
V of this contract, and undertakes to implement its own policies
related to these points related to the development of its activity and to transfer the
same to the Point of Sale. [....]“

Annex II to the contract, “Data collection. Wholesale distribution contract” says:

“This Annex, [...], contains the instructions regarding compliance with
the Unique Additional Provision of Law 25/2007, of October 18, of
Conservation of data related to Electronic Communications and
Public Communications Networks regarding (i) face-to-face identification and
collection of data from customers who purchase a Prepaid Card or a Pack
Prepayment prior to the sale and (ii) the information to them in the
terms described in the aforementioned Law, all in accordance with the provisions
in clause 11.2 of the Wholesale Distribution Agreement of which this Annex
bring cause.

The requirements and procedures listed below are the minimum that
The Wholesaler must comply or, failing that, the Retail Point of Sale in
compliance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, without prejudice to the
compliance with other current procedures with the same object available
in the Commercial Portal. The Wholesaler acknowledges and accepts that they may
be modified, reduced or extended by VODAFONE in the event that it were
necessary. These updates will be timely communicated by
VODAFONE to the Wholesaler through the commercial Portal and the latter must
communicate it to the retail Points of Sale.” (The underlining is ours)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/75

This Annex II dedicates the first stipulation to the "In-Person Identification and Collection
of Customer/Buyer Data”, which reads as follows:

"1. The WHOLESALER must transfer to the retail Point of Sale through the
subscription of an agreement that includes obligations related in the present
annex, the essential obligation to identify PRESENTIALLY the
Customer /Buyer through their original identification card. *  The
Documentation to be presented by natural persons according to their nationality and
situation is as follows: -For Spaniards: DNI or NIF. -For citizens of the
European Community ID, Residence Card and Passport are accepted. -For
Citizens from outside the European Community: Passport or NIE.
2. Likewise, the WHOLESALER must indicate to the retail Point of Sale the
procedure to be followed to collect data and activate the credit card
correct way.
The data must be collected at retail Points of Sale through the
Vodafone WAS tool. It will also be possible to activate through the Web
Service enabled on the WHOLESALE website, as long as it is integrated with
Vodafone WAS. It will be mandatory to verify that the data provided by the
Customer/Purchased and recorded by Vodafone WAS or in Web Service are
correspond to the documentation provided.”

  copy of

  contract signed between Sercom Soluciones,

3.
*** ESTABLISHMENT.1, on “04/20/2021”, date after the facts.
4. Copy of the text that Sercom Soluciones, S.L. shows in its web service, which
must access the different points of sale before activating the prepaid cards of
Vodafone.

  S.L.

  and

5. Copy of the "General Conditions of Mobile Communications Services.
Prepaid".
It begins by indicating that "These General Conditions constitute the
Contract (hereinafter, the Contract) and are the only ones applicable to the provision of
mobile communications services of Vodafone Spain, S.A.U., [...]
Prepaid modality (card) to consumers and users [...] (hereinafter, the
Customer)."

 We transcribe some of its stipulations:

"1. Object. - Vodafone will provide the Customer with the mobile telephone service and the
electronic communications services and added value that you request (in
forward, the Service).
 [...]
11.- Protection of Personal Data. - According to the provisions of the Organic Law
15/1999 of Personal Data Protection (LOPD), we inform you of
that the personal data to which Vodafone has access as a result
of the provision of the Service will be incorporated into a file owned by Vodafone
and will be treated in order to provide the contracted services.

The Customer also consents to Vodafone processing their data with the following
purposes: (i) carry out general commercial actions or those adapted to your
profile, of the telecommunications and value-added services provided by
Vodafone, by companies of the Vodafone Group (www.vodafone.es) or by third parties

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/75

involved in the provision of said services, during or after
to the validity of the contract.
The aforementioned commercial actions may be carried out by any means
communication (telephone, e-mail, sms, mms…); and (ii) install and update on your
phone those applications corresponding to services of
telecommunications and value-added services provided by Vodafone, by companies
of the Vodafone Group or by third parties involved in the provision of such
services.
Likewise, the Client expressly consents that Vodafone:
a) treat your traffic and billing data, in accordance with the provisions of art. 65.3
Royal Decree 424/2005, of April 15;
b) access and process your browsing data;
c) process your location data, within the framework of the provision of services
added value implied by said location and provided that they are previously
requested by the Client and only for the time necessary to provide the
themselves;
d) transfer your personal data to companies of the Vodafone Group
(www.vodafone.es), all with the purpose of carrying out commercial actions
in the same terms indicated in section (i) of the second paragraph of this
Condition.
The Client may revoke all the consents expressed in this
Condition by addressing Vodafone with the reference "Data Protection" by
any means indicated in condition 6 of this Contract.
In relation to the data services that the Client has contracted or may
hire, we inform you that, within the framework of the provision of services
contracted, Vodafone may use tools to control the volume and
use of data to manage the operation of your network, as well as the services
contracted by the Client The Client may exercise the rights of access,
rectification, cancellation and opposition recognized in the LOPD addressing to
Vodafone by any means indicated in clause 6.”

6. Copy of the "General Conditions of Mobile Communications Services
Postpaid. Individuals".

SEVENTH: Violation of article 15 of the GDPR: Effects of the advance payment of the
sanction.

In her allegations to the opening agreement of 02/28/2022, the defendant requests that
is recognized as responsible for the infringement of article 15 of the
GDPR that was attributed to it in the aforementioned agreement and for which a possible sanction was established
administrative fine of 100,000 euros.

On 03/01/2022, VODAFONE orders a payment to the AEPD bank account
for an amount of 60,000 euros. The amount entered is the result of applying a
reduction of forty percent to the amount of the fine established for the infraction
alluded to. The defendant has made use of the two reductions provided for in sections
2 and 3 of article 85 of the LPACAP. The payment made within the period granted for
making allegations at the opening of the procedure entails the waiver of any
administrative action or appeal against the sanction and recognition of
responsibility in relation to the facts referred to in the Startup agreement.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/75

Article 85 of the LPACAP provides in its section 3 that "the voluntary payment for the
presumed responsible, at any time prior to the resolution, will imply the
completion of the procedure”.

Thus, the legal consequence that derives from the fact that the defendant has proceeded to the
advance payment of the sanction provided for the infringement of article 15 of the GDPR is the
ipso iure termination of the procedure exclusively with respect to the aforementioned infraction.

Therefore, the processing of this procedure is limited to the remaining
Violations of the GDPR attributed to the claimed party: articles 6.1 and 17.

EIGHTH: Test practice.

In the procedure dated 06/27/2022, the instructor of the procedure records
the opening of a test phase for a period of thirty days; that they will be practiced
evidence before VODAFONE and SERCOM SOLUCIONES, S.L., (SERCOM) and the
practice of the following evidentiary proceedings:

1. Consider reproduced the claim presented by the claiming party and its
attached documentation, as well as the documents obtained and generated during the
actions of transfer of the claim.
2. Reproduce the allegations to the agreement to start the procedure
disciplinary action presented by VODAFONE and the documentation that accompanies them.

A. Test request to VODAFONE.

The respondent is required to provide the following information and
documentation:

1. Copy of the Record of Treatment Activities (RAT) that was approved in
September 2020.

2. Regarding the violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR derived from having processed the NIF
of the claimant linked to the registration of a prepaid line that he did not contract, the following is requested:

2.1. Copy of the form that was completed before the "***ESTABLISHMENT.1" the
person who identified himself with the claimant's NIF and requested registration of the line
prepaid.
2.2. Copy of Annex III to the "Non-exclusive Prepaid Wholesale Distribution Agreement
Vodafone” subscribed with SERCOM. Annex that deals with the treatment order
that the Distributor formalized with VODAFONE. You must provide it completed and
signed (i). Likewise, it must provide the modifications or additions to the aforementioned Annex III
that were in force in November 2020 (ii).
23. Copy of Annex IV to the "Non-exclusive Prepaid Wholesale Distribution Agreement
Vodafone" signed with SERCOM that deals with compliance by the Wholesaler of
the obligations to transfer to the retail point of sale all the obligations in
matter of protection of personal data (i) You must also provide the
certificate that he obtained from the Distributor through which he accredited that he had given

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/75

transfer of such obligations to the retail point of sale, in this case to
***ESTABLISHMENT.1,(ii).
2.4. Copy of Annex V to the non-exclusive Prepaid Wholesale Distribution Contract
Vodafone signed with SERCOM that deals with VODAFONE policies
regarding Fraud, Risk and Information Protection (i).
You must also provide: (ii) Document that VODAFONE had collected from the
Distributor in order to have documentary evidence of compliance with the obligation
to inform the retail point of sale. (iii) Likewise, it must indicate if on the date
November 2020 those policies (those reflected in Annex V) had been
modified, reduced or extended by VODAFONE and, if so, a copy of the
document in which it is collected.
2.5. Regarding Annex II to the non-exclusive Prepaid Wholesale Distribution Agreement
Vodafone, subscribed with SERCOM, referring to the instructions related to the
compliance with the Single Additional Provision of Law 25/2007, of October 18,
Conservation of data related to Electronic Communications and Networks
Public Communications to which the stipulation with which the copy is provided alludes
of the contract that the Wholesaler signed with the retailer ***ESTABLISHMENT.1, it is
requests:
(i) Provide a copy of the contract that the SERCOM Distributor had signed with
***ESTABLISHMENT.1, dated 11/17/2020, since the copy of the contract
provided data of "04/20/2021".
(ii) Detailing the controls that VODAFONE performs with respect to the
contracts entered into with retail outlets by the Distributor in order to
to verify that they are adjusted to Law.
2.6. How can VODAFONE certify before this Supervisory Authority that,
Indeed, the point of sale collected from the person who requested the hiring of
a prepaid line your original identity document (not a photocopy), which verified your
identity and who collected the client's identity data from the aforementioned document?
2.7. Regarding the document called General Conditions of the Services of
Prepaid Mobile Communications that VODAFONE has contributed with its allegations
to the opening agreement as annex document number 5, it is requested that you report
At what point is the conditional referral delivered to the customer who hires a
prepaid line with VODAFONE through a retail point of sale.
2.8. Regarding document number 4 provided by VODAFONE, annexed to its
allegations to the start-up agreement - the screenshot of an application of
VODAFONE in which on the left appears a field with the legend "Access
customers" and below "***ESTABLISHMENT.1" and to the right "Indicate the number of
phone to activate” and “Indicates the customer data, a button with the legend “Activate” and
immediately after "vodafone activation information" that is unreadable and that
the operator has transcribed – it is requested to report the date on which such application
was operational; in particular from what date it is used with the point of sale
retailer ***ESTABLISHMENT.1.

3.Regarding the violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR derived from having made a
consult the asset solvency file ASNEF using as criteria of
search for the NIF of the claimant, the following is required:

3.1. Documentary evidence that, as stated in his allegations to the
startup agreement, you received an online request to purchase a product or service that
involved financing or periodic billing in which the applicant identified herself with

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/75

the NIF of the claimant. You must provide (i) the documents that prove the request
received and (ii) the documentation that was then collected from the applicant for the contract to
in order to verify your identity.
3.2. Documentary evidence that the person who requested to hire a service
postpaid that led him to make a query to the ASNEF solvency file using
as search criteria, the NIF of the claimant was informed of this treatment,
prior to the consultation, in compliance with the provisions of article 13 of the
GDPR.

4. Regarding the violation of article 17 of the GDPR attributed to VODAFONE, it is
requests:

4.1. That he explain the reasons why he did not proceed "without undue delay" to delete
the NIF data of the claimant under article 17.1.d) RGPD since the
entity was fully aware that the claimant's data had been
linked to fraudulent recruitment. In this regard, we refer to the emails
exchanged with the claimant from which it turns out that on the date
02/03/2021, when the police report was already in the possession of VODAFONE
filed by the claimant and various documents submitted by her, acknowledged that
it was a fraud, despite which until 05/27/2021, as stated, no
deleted the claimant's data from its systems.

B. Evidence request to SERCOM related to the “Distribution
Prepaid Wholesaler. Not exclusive to Vodafone”, which signed with that operator the
06/01/2019.

The electronic notification was made available to the recipient on 06/27/2022
being rejected on 06/08/2022.

NINTH: VODAFONE's response to the tests carried out.

On 07/21/2022, the AEPD received the respondent's response to the evidence
practiced.

1. At the request that you provide a copy of the RAT that was approved in
September 2020, he submits a document from which he comments that it is "current in
November 2020” and “which applies to both franchises and wholesalers”.

The document, identified with number 1, is headed "Details of the activity
of processing” (Processing Activity Details). The information relates exclusively to
on “Distribution–Franchise Distributors”. In the section "Description of the
treatment”, mentions the “management of franchise stores” and says that the
treatment is the same as in VODAFONE's own stores with two
differences: “but with two different ERP in the front.”.

VODAFONE is not clearly identified as the data controller. HE
uses the reference "1.0" in the description of the treatment carried out by the
person in charge of treatment and the purposes of the treatment. On the legal basis
of the treatment says that “individuals have consented to the treatment
of your personal data for one or more purposes.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/75

2. In relation to the violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR derived from the registration of a line
prepayment linked to the NIF of the claimant:

2.1. It is requested that you provide a copy of the form that the customer who contracted the line
prepayment completed in the ***ESTABLISHMENT.1. This request had its reason
be that, according to the "Retail Distribution Agreement" between SERCOM and
***ESTABLISHMENT.1, "If the operator requires it, the point of sale
You will need to print the form in duplicate, get the customer's signature, give them a
copy and keep the other for collection by Sercom staff.”
(stipulation 4.3)

VODAFONE responds by sending another document other than the one requested: it provides a
screenshot with the information that was incorporated into the computer application of
SERCOM, a document that he had already provided.

2.2. Taking into account that section 12.2 of the Wholesale Distribution contract
concluded between VODAFONE and SERCOM that provided the AEPD with the allegations to the
initiation agreement established that "the Wholesaler will transfer all obligations
regarding the protection of personal data at points of sale
Retailers and will certify having transferred these obligations by signing
a standard certificate that is attached as document IV.", it was requested to that
operator that provided the aforementioned annex IV and "the certificate that it obtained from the Distributor
by means of which he accredited that he had transferred such obligations to the point
of Retail sale, in this case to ***ESTABILIENTO.1”.

VODAFONE responds by twice providing a document that certifies nothing.

The document sent is a form (identified as annex IV) in which,
In addition to not having completed the certifying data (it should be
SERCOM), since the spaces for the NIF, name, address and details of the
representative are empty, there is no SERCOM stamp or signature. Figure the seal of
VODAFONE stamped twice and a signature with no indication of who it belongs to. No
There is no mention of SERCOM in the document.

23. VODAFONE was requested to provide a copy of annex V to the Distribution Agreement
Prepaid Wholesaler subscribed with SERCOM and the copy of the document that VODAFONE
would have been collected from the distributor in order to have documentary evidence of the
compliance with the obligation to inform the retail point of sale.

VODAFONE provides the aforementioned annex V, which is headed "Anti-corruption policy,
economic sanctions and corporate security" but has not submitted any documents
certifying that SERCOM informed the point of sale. It has limited itself to providing two
annexes to annex V: A. “Individual confidentiality agreement. Data and information
owned by Vodafone Spain, S.A.U.” and B. “Safety rules and procedures.
Summary of general safety regulations”. In both documents (A and B) do not appear
Once the identifying data of the declarant has been filled in, that is, we are facing a
form in which no one is identified as the author of the statement contained in them
collect. There is no seal or signature of SERCOM. The stamp of
VODAFONE. Also a rubric to which it is unknown who it belongs to.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/75

2.4. Annex II to the Wholesale Distribution Contract signed with SERCOM, versa
on the instructions regarding compliance with the Sole Additional Provision of
Law 25/2007.

VODAFONE was asked to provide (i) a copy of the contract that the distributor
SERCOM had subscribed with ***ESTABLECIMIENTO.1, on 11/17/2020, whenever
that the copy of the contract provided dates from "04/20/2021", and (ii) that it detail which
were the controls that VODAFONE carries out regarding the contracts entered into by the
distributor, SERCOM, with the retail outlets in order to verify that they are
adjusted to law.

Regarding the controls, VODAFONE has responded:

“[...] in relation to the controls that Vodafone performs regarding the contracts
entered into between wholesalers and retailers, they are detailed in the
following clauses:
Clause 11.1 of the contract between Vodafone and SERCOM (Document 2 of the written
of Allegations to the Commencement Agreement): "In order to guarantee the quality
of the VODAFONE services associated with the Products and the prestige of its
brand, the traceability of the activated Products and avoid Fraud and/or Deception
Commercial, the WHOLESALER must provide VODAFONE daily through
Vodafone WAS a report on all Retail Points of Sale with
who works as well as the type of product supplied to them by
of the WHOLESALER including the following information of each Point of Sale
Retail:
• On each Retail Point of Sale: Detail of the commercial name, CIF,
company name, address, telephone number, town, postal code and sector of
activity,
• On the products sold by the WHOLESALER at each Point of Sale
Retailer: Number of products sold by product type, MSISDN in your
case and date of purchase of the product by the Retail Point of Sale. Yeah
the date of information to VODAFONE of the products sold by the
WHOLESALE to retail point of sale is after the activation date
of the MSISDN by the retailer or, if the activation of the products is carried out
with a NIF/CIF of a retail Point of Sale other than the one informed by
of the WHOLESALER, the action of the WHOLESALER may be considered Deception
Commercial.
[...]".
Clause 9 of the treatment contract (Document 3): "The
Processor will ensure that any Subprocessor
Treatment allows Vodafone, its customers (including subcontractors,
auditors or other agents of Vodafone and their respective clients) and/or the
Privacy Authorities (each an "Audit Party") to access
to its computer systems and other information systems, records,
documents and agreements that are reasonably required by the Auditing Party, to
verify that the Treatment Manager and/or his Sub-Managers are
complying with its obligations under this Agreement (or
any subsequent sub-Processing contract) or any Sub-Processing Legislation
Applicable Privacy [...]".

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/75

In addition, as noted in section iii. above, through Annex IV
the wholesaler certifies that the obligations have been transferred to the points of sale
applicable in terms of data protection.”

In short, the controls consist of:

1. In the obligations established in clause 11.1 of the contract of
Distribution, according to which the distributor undertakes to inform the operator of the
identity of the points of sale with which you enter into contracts and the products
supplied. Extremes that do not allow in any case to control if the points of
sale follow the card purchaser identification protocol. It's more,
It is not even mentioned among the obligations assumed by the SERCOM distributor the
to provide VODAFONE with a copy of the contractual documents it signs with
the points of sale. Stipulation 9 of the treatment order contract,
provision that does not contemplate actions to verify the identity of the
contracting of prepaid cards.

2. Through a document issued by the wholesaler certifies that it has transferred to the
points of sale the applicable obligations regarding data protection according to
the model that appears as annex IV of the distribution contract. However, in the
certificate provided, as previously stated, nothing is accredited since it
provided by VODAFONE is not a certificate issued by the SERCOM distributor but rather
an unfilled form bearing the VODAFONE stamps.

2.5. To the question asked about how VODAFONE could accredit before the AEPD
that the point of sale collected from the person who requested the contracting of the line
prepaid your original identity document (not a photocopy); that point of sale
verified his identity and that he collected from the aforementioned document the identity data of the
client, the defendant does not prove anything and merely responds referring again to the
contract entered into with the point of sale (document 6). Says the following:

"As indicated in the pleadings to the Commencement Agreement, SERCOM is
forced to transfer to the point of sale the "essential obligation to identify
IN PRESENTIALITY to the Client/Buyer through his identification card
original". In addition, it is specified that "the documentation to be presented by the
individuals" consists of the "DNI or NIF" or the "Passport or NIE"
(Document 2 of the brief of Allegations to the Commencement Agreement).
In turn, this obligation was transferred to the point of sale
(***ESTABLISHMENT.1), as evidenced by Document 6 provided with
this writing:”.

The mentioned document 6 corresponds to the contract between SERCOM and the point of
retail ***ESTABLISHMENT.1.

2.6. VODAFONE provides a copy of the retail distribution contract for
telephony signed between SERCOM and ***ESTABLECIMIENTO.1, (document number 6).

The only reference that exists in it to the obligations of which it supposedly
SERCOM should inform you regarding the identification of the acquirers

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/75

of the cards, is this, in which, as can be verified, the client is not required to
Provide the original identification document. The General Conditions of the contract,
Stipulation 4, "Requirements for the collection of SIM/PACK customer data:", says:

“4.1. In compliance with the provisions of the Sole Additional Provision of the
Law 25/2007 of October 18, on the Conservation of Data Related to
Electronic Communications and Public Communications Networks, the
Authorized Point of Sale when selling a SIM/PACK must comply with the
following obligations
to. Keep a book-registry in which the identity of the clients that
acquire a smart card with said payment method.
b. Prior information to customers about the existence and content of the record,
of its availability in the terms expressed in the number
following and of the rights included in article 38.6 of Law 32/2003.
c. The identification will be made by means of a document accrediting the
personality, recording in the registry book the name, surnames and
nationality of the buyer, as well as the number corresponding to the document
identification used and the nature or name of said document. In it
case of legal persons, [...]
d. In cases where the operator requires it, collect and send the
documentation signed by the client to the place indicated by Sercom. [...]  (He
underlined is ours)

Stipulation 11. “Protection of customer personal data.

"The point of sale will comply with the provisions of Law 25/2007, of 18
October; Regarding the conservation of data collected from users,
being, therefore, their sole responsibility for compliance or not with the
current legislation on data protection. The Point of Sale acknowledges
expressly comply with all the requirements demanded by Law 15/1999 of
Data Protection."

3.Regarding the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR derived from consulting the file
of financial solvency ASNEF using the NIF of the claimant, it was required to
VODAFONE that accredits two extremes:
1. The alleged receipt of an online request made by someone who identified themselves with
the NIF of the claimant to contract a product or service that implied
Financing or periodic billing. In this regard, these documents were requested:
that certify the receipt of the application for the product to which it alludes and those that are
collected from the applicant in order to verify their identity.
2. That the person who requested to contract an online service was informed, on a
prior to the treatment (the consultation), as required by article 13 of the GDPR.

The defendant responds to the request for evidence saying:
 

“Vodafone has not been able to locate the request in question. However, as
As noted in the pleadings to the Commencement Agreement, the consultation with the
ASNEF file was not linked to the registration of the prepaid card, in the
to the extent that the registration of prepaid cards does not imply a scoring process or the
consult delinquency files.” (The underlining is ours)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/75

Regarding the second request, it says:

 "We refer to what was stated in the answer to the previous question."

4.Regarding the infringement of article 17 of the GDPR, VODAFONE was asked to
explain the reasons why it did not proceed "without undue delay" to delete the data
of the NIF of the claimant under article 17.1.d) GDPR from the moment in which
that he learned that he had been linked to a fraudulent contract, while the
emails exchanged with the claimant evidenced "that on the date
02/03/2021, when the police report was already in the possession of VODAFONE
filed by the claimant and various documents submitted by her, acknowledged that
it was a fraud, despite which until 05/27/2021, as stated, no
deleted the claimant's data from its systems.”

VODAFONE responded by reiterating what was alleged about this infringement of the GDPR in its
pleadings to the initiation agreement.

TENTH: Resolution proposal.

The resolution proposal, signed and notified on 10/10/2022, was formulated in the
following terms:

<<1. That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a violation of article
6.1. of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, materialized in having given
registration of a prepaid line associated with the NIF of the claimant, with a fine of 70,000
€ (seventy thousand euros).

2. That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanctions
VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a violation of article 6.1.
of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR, specified in having consulted
a credit information file using the NIF of the claimant as criteria without
be legitimized for this treatment, with a fine of €70,000 (seventy thousand euros).

3. That the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection sanctions
VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a violation of article 17
of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.b) of the GDPR, with a fine of €100.00 (one hundred thousand
euro).>>

The certificate issued by the FNMT certifying that the
Notification was accepted by the defendant on 10/17/2022.

Thus, being ten days the period granted to formulate allegations to the
proposed resolution in accordance with article 73.1 of the LPACAP, the aforementioned term
would end on 10/31/2022.

ELEVENTH: On 10/18/2022, a letter from VODAFONE was received at the AEPD
in which you request that the term granted be extended, by the maximum legally permitted
to formulate allegations to the proposed resolution.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/75

The AEPD responds on 10/19/2022 denying the requested extension. The writing of
response is notified to the defendant on 10/19/2022.

To the reasons given by VODAFONE to justify its request for extension -which
“the term initially granted [...] does not allow the proper formulation of the appropriate
allegations and gather the necessary evidence” due to “the complexity of the
procedure and the amount of the sanction that could correspond"- it was answered that
no document was involved in the procedure that was unknown to the
claimed, therefore, on the one hand, he had been delivered a copy of the file
before the processing of allegations to the initiation agreement and, on the other, the only evidence that
were carried out with the obtaining of documentation, they had been carried out before the
VODAFONE since SERCOM did not even accept the notification. HE
added that the defendant had had the opportunity to provide evidence in the proceedings
of allegations to the initiation agreement and in the test phase and that the proposal for
resolution maintained the legal qualification of the facts that was made in the agreement of
beginning, limiting itself, in essence, to rebutting the arguments that the defendant had
used in his defense in his allegations to the opening agreement.

TWELFTH: VODAFONE does not make any arguments regarding the proposed resolution.

As of 11/03/2022, three days after the end of the period granted for
make allegations to the proposed resolution, have not had input into the
Record of this Agency the allegations of VODAFONE.

Pursuant to article 73.1 of the LPACAP, the term to make allegations is ten
business days, which must be counted from the day following the acceptance of the
notification. Thus, having accepted VODAFONE the notification of the proposal
resolution on 10/17/2022, the claim period ended on 10/31/2022.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
that is in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant, A.A.A., holder of NIF ***NIF.1, denounces that VODAFONE,
entity of which you are not a customer, has registered a telephone line associated with your NIF
prepaid without your knowledge or consent; have consulted the system
EQUIFAX credit information using your NIF as search criteria and not
has addressed the rights of access and deletion that it exercised before the operator.

SECOND: VODAFONE processed the claimant's NIF data linked to the registration of
a prepaid telephone line, number (...), dated November 17, 2020. They work
in the file, provided by VODAFONE with its response to the request
information from the Data Inspection Sub-directorate, various screenshots
of their computer systems (annex documents 3 and 4) in which the
customer account ID ***ID.1, corresponding to the telephone number and the date
mentioned, and linked to the name of B.B.B. and the NIF of the claimant, ***NIF.1. He
NIF data is registered in the "(...)" in the "Info. contact".

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/75

THIRD: VODAFONE declares that it was entitled to process the NIF data of
the claimant who was provided by the third party who intervened in the contracting and that the basis
legal processing is article 6.1.c) of the GDPR in connection with the Provision
Unique Additional of Law 25/2007. The defendant has stated:

"Vodafone is obliged by Law 25/2007 to treat the "number corresponding to the
identification document used" by the buyer of the prepaid card; question
Another difference is that said number turns out to be wrong or has been used by a
fraud by a third party, but this may not imply, in any case, a violation of the
article 6.1 of the GDPR.”

FOURTH: VODAFONE acknowledges in its allegations to the initiation agreement (allegation
third) that the NIF data of the claimant who was subject to treatment linked to
the prepaid line does not belong to the purchaser of the card. The entity has said:
 
“[...] there may be cases, such as this one, in which Vodafone processes data
staff that does not belong to the applicant for the prepaid card, but to a third party (the
claimant). This is what has happened in this case: it is evidence and we do not deny it.”

FIFTH: VODAFONE states that the third party that contracted with it and identified himself
with the NIF of the claimant "satisfactorily passed the security policies" of the
company "because to carry out the registration of a prepaid line the exhibition is required
of an official identification document before the agents of the physical stores”. Ha
declared that he did not know of the existence of this fraud until he was notified
by the claimant and that at that moment "a procedure is initiated to verify
the facts and fix the situation.” VODAFONE received the copy of the complaint that
the claimant filed with the police on 12/21/2020.

SIXTH: The Wholesale Distribution contract signed between VODAFONE and SERCOM,
clause 12.2, says that SERCOM "will notify all obligations regarding
protection of personal data to retail outlets and
certify that they have transferred these obligations by signing a
standard certificate attached as document IV.”

VODAFONE in the test phase is required to provide the issued certificate
by SERCOM under the aforementioned stipulation. In response, he contributes a
document -form annex IV- in which there is no mention of SERCOM. In
the document does not include the data of the certifier (it should be
SERCOM). The spaces for the NIF, name, address of the certifier and the
details of your representative are empty; there is no seal or signature of SERCOM. There's a
VODAFONE stamp stamped twice and a signature with no indication of who
belongs.

SEVENTH: Annex II to the contract between SERCOM and VODAFONE, “Data collection.
Wholesale Distribution Agreement”, contains the instructions relating to the
compliance with the Sole Additional Provision of Law 25/2007, regarding (i) the
face-to-face identification and data collection of customers who purchase a Card
Prepaid or a Prepaid Pack prior to the sale and (ii) the information to the
themselves in the terms described in the aforementioned Law, all in accordance with the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/75

provided in clause 11.2 of the Wholesale Distribution Contract of which the Annex
bring cause.

Its first stipulation, "In-person Identification and Data Collection of the
Client/Buyer”, says:

"1. The WHOLESALER must transfer to the retail Point of Sale through the
subscription of an agreement that includes obligations related in the present
annex, the essential obligation to identify PRESENTIALLY the
Customer /Buyer through their original identification card. *   The
Documentation to be presented by natural persons according to their nationality and
situation is as follows: -For Spaniards: DNI or NIF. -For citizens of the
European Community ID, Residence Card and Passport are accepted. -For
Citizens from outside the European Community: Passport or NIE. [...].”

The contract for the retail distribution of telephony products signed between SERCOM
and *** ESTABLISHMENT.1, (document number 6 of those provided in the phase of
proof) does not include the obligation for the client to show the original document. His
Stipulation 4, "Requirements for the collection of SIM/PACK customer data:", says:

"1. In compliance with the provisions of the Sole Additional Provision of the Law
25/2007 [...], the Authorized Point of Sale when selling a SIM/PACK must
comply with the following obligations
[..]”
c. The identification will be made by means of a document accrediting the
personality, recording in the registry book the name, surnames and
nationality of the buyer, as well as the number corresponding to the document
identification used and the nature or name of said document. In it
case of legal persons, [..]”

EIGHTH: VODAFONE in the test phase is requested to detail which are the
controls that it performs regarding the contracts entered into by the distributor, SERCOM,
with retail outlets in order to verify that they are in accordance with the law.

From his answer -which is reproduced in detail in the eighth Antecedent- the controls
its about:
1. A document issued by the wholesale distributor certifying that it has
transferred to the points of sale the applicable obligations in terms of protection
of data, annex IV of the distribution contract. We refer to the Proven Fact
SIXTH.

2. The obligations established in clause 11.1 of the Distribution contract, to
according to which the Distributor undertakes to inform the operator of the identity of
the points of sale with which it enters into contracts and the products supplied, and the
stipulation 9 of the treatment contract between SERCOM and VODAFONE.

NINTH: The defendant in the trial phase is requested to provide a copy of the RAT. He
document that it provides (number 1 of those sent in the test phase) versa,
exclusively, on the activity of the Distributors-Franchisees and does not specify if
the processing of personal data to which you are referring has to do with the one
made with the sale of prepaid products or other types of products. As base

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/75

legal treatment says that "people have given their consent to the
processing of your personal data for one or more purposes”.

TENTH: There is an EQUIFAX document in the file with the date
"11/12/2020" that includes the result of the search carried out on that date in the
ASNEF file using the claimant's NIF as criteria. In the section of
document "History of queries" a query made by
“Vodafone One, S.A.U.” on 09/15/2020, at 18:40.27.8 hours.

ELEVENTH: VODAFONE acknowledges in its allegations to the start-up agreement that
consulted the ASNEF file using the claimant's NIF as an identifier;
declares that the query was linked to "an online request" that he had received and
that “the product in question about which Equifax was inquired was a
product related to financing, deferred payment or periodic invoicing, so
falls within the scope of application of article 20.1.e) of the LOPDGDD”.

TWELFTH: VODAFONE in the test phase is requested to accredit
documentary proof that you received an online application to hire a product or service
involving financing or periodic billing by a person who identified himself
with the NIF of the claimant. In particular, they were asked to provide (i) the documents that
prove the request received and (ii) the documentation that was then collected from the
contract applicant in order to verify their identity.

The defendant responds: "Vodafone has not been able to locate the request in question" (The
underlined is ours)

THIRTEENTH: There is in the file the following documentation that accredits
that the claimant exercised the right of access and the terms of the response of
VODAFONE, both to the exercise of the right by the claimant and to the petition
information that the AEPD Inspection Sub-directorate addressed to him on the matter:

1. An email that the claimant sends on 12/19/2020 to
derechosprotecciondatos@vodafone.es
account
(***USUARIO.1@gmail.com) in which you request access to your data and with the
Provide a copy of your ID.

from

his

 

 

2. An email from VODAFONE to the claimant, dated 12/21/2020, at 7:20 p.m.
hours, in which he acknowledges receipt of the petition and replies that, in accordance
with article 15 of the GDPR, "We regret to inform you that there is no
legitimized to obtain the right of access with respect to the data
personal information (National Identity Document) that appear in the system of
VODAFONE ESPAÑA since you do not register in it as the owner of the
data required. We remind you that, if you wish, you can exercise your rights
deletion, access, limitation, rectification and portability by sending
a written communication, accompanied by a copy of your ID or document
equivalent identification, to the address [...]” (The underlining is ours)

3. An email that the claimant sends to VODAFONE on 12/21/2020, at 20:21
hours, with this text: "A complaint filed with the national police is attached
due to a usurpation of my identity, for which I am requesting the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/75

access to personal data that may appear related to my ID or
name, since you have consulted my data on 09/15/2020 18:40:27 in
an Equifax file illegitimately since I do not have any contract or
relationship with you." Attached to it, in addition to the DNI and the letter requesting the
access, police report.

4. An email from VODAFONE dated 12/29/2020 acknowledging receipt of the request
of access of December 21 and responds in the same terms as in its
previous answer (point 2).

5. A screenshot of the VODAFONE systems (document 2 attached to the
response to the request for information from the Sub-directorate of Inspection) in
whose image is seen, in the "Calling information" tab the ID ***ID.1 (to which
the NIF of the claimant and the name and surname of the third party are linked) and
below the tab corresponding to "request 10915XXXX". in it is
registered as "Title" "Fraud", as "Type" "Fraud" and as "Code of
opening” “Fraud”. The text of the request is transcribed below
formulated by the claimant, in which she identifies herself by her name, surname, NIF
and domicile; states that you wish to exercise the right of access; asks you
provide “information about their personal data, contracts, etc. that may
appear in your company.” and indicates that you provide a copy of your ID.

6.VODAFONE responds to the information request of the Sub-directorate of
Inspection of the AEPD that the claimant exercised before her the right of access
to your data on December 19, 2020 and that he responded on December 21,
2020 informing her "that she is not legitimized to obtain the right
of access with respect to personal data (National Document of
Identity) that appears in the system of my [the claimed] since Mrs. [the
claimant] is not registered as the owner of the required data.” “This is
because the data of Ms. [the claimant] were related to a
third party that used the data of the Interested Party fraudulently. In this
Of course, the only personal data of the claimant that is related to this
fraud is the DNI, which is why in the evidence provided by the
systems of my represented appears information from a third party "B.B.B.", with the
DNI of the claimant ***NIF.1.” (The underlining is ours)

FOURTEENTH: There is in the file this documentation that certifies that the
The claimant exercised the right of deletion and the response received from VODAFONE:

1. An email that the claimant sends to VODAFONE on 01/24/2021,
derechosprotecciondatos@vodafone.es, with this text:
“This email is sent to request the deletion of my data from your databases.
data, since they do not provide me with the information related to my ID, and I do not
should have none of my data as I have no relationship with
Vodafone.” (The underlining is ours)
The claimant attached to her email her signed request for deletion of data; his
DNI and "copy of the expansion of the complaint in which the
national police the information that they give me together with that of other companies. [...]”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/75

2. An email from VODAFONE to the claimant, dated 01/26/2021, in which
responds: "[...] In view of your request, in which you exercise the right of
deletion of your personal data in accordance with article 17 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 [...] We regret to inform you that this entity does not
can generate the deletion of the requested data since they are
necessary to provide the service to the prepaid line ***TELEPHONE.1,
we understand the purpose of your request, however, and in case of not
recognize the product we could generate a rectification of data so that the
service is in your name and you can make use of it; we emphasize that the
prepaid products cannot be deactivated, otherwise we can wait
until the card expires (Approximately estimated expiration date is June
of 2021 if no recharges are generated), after that you could request your
right of erasure.” (The underlining is ours)

3. An email that the claimant addresses to VODAFONE on 02/01/2021 with this text:
“[...] They tell me from the Vodafone Spain facebook channel that they opened the
request number 10915XXXX to the fraud department, where they notify that
Indeed there is an error and it is solved. Can you confirm the
deletion of my data? [...] ”

4. VODAFONE reply email of 02/03/2021 in which it says that “[...]
In response to your email, we must inform you that the line ***TELEPHONE.1
corresponding to the file registered with its National Document number of
Identity was expired by our fraud area in order to avoid
any type of use, however, it still registers in our system and
It will only be disconnected until June 2021, which makes it impossible for
Your data is deleted from our system.
However, the data protection department generates a statement
alerting all our areas to omit any type of management on
the fraudulent file, attached to it we generate the opposition to the treatment and use of the
data for commercial purposes.
Finally, we make the clarification that your request (Deletion of data)
It can only be attended to until the previously stated date (June
2021), therefore it is necessary that you send us this request at the end of the month
exposed. [...]” (emphasis added)

FIFTEENTH: VODAFONE has invoked these reasons to explain why it did not
proceeded to suppress the NIF of the claimant "without undue delay", in accordance with
Article 17.1.d) of the GDPR, after learning that he was linked to a
fraudulent recruitment:

- “[...], Vodafone does not keep the DNI number related to the identity of the
Claimant, but with the identity (name and surname) of the third party who gave
register the prepaid card.”
- That two of the exceptions of article 17.3 of the GDPR concur:
Section b), "The treatment of the DNI number provided by the third party was
necessary for Vodafone to comply with a legal obligation”, in connection
with the Sole Additional Provision and article 5 of Law 25/2007.
Section e): "The treatment of the DNI number provided by the third party was
necessary for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/75

SIXTEENTH: VODAFONE states in its response to the request for information
of the Sub-Directorate of Inspection that dealt with the right to suppress the
claimant and deleted their NIF from their systems on 05/27/2021.

SEVENTEENTH: Document number 4 of those that VODAFONE provided to the
Sub-directorate of Inspection with its response to the information request, includes two
screenshots that prove that on 01/26/2021 they existed in the systems of the
operator claimed records mentioning the fraudulent nature of the
prepaid line linked to the NIF of the claimant. In the document, the “(...)” incorporates the
following information: In the "Customer registration" tab, it appears with the "Order number
V” the reference ***REFERENCE.1; as "Title" "Prepaid Installation With..." and as
"F. Opening” “11/17/2020”. In the lower box, "Requests, claims,
breakdowns", several claims are registered, including one dated 01/26/2021 with
this information: As "Type", there is "Fraud"; as “Code”, “possible fraud” and
as “Subcode”, “Impersonation”.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competition of the AEPD

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of the
European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of their personal data and the
free movement of these data and repealing Directive 95/46/CE (GDPR),
recognizes each control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48 of
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the protection of personal data and
guarantees of digital rights (LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this procedure.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Procedure that is substantiated before the AEPD

Title VIII of the LOPDGDD is headed "Procedure in case of possible
violation of data protection regulations” (articles 63 to 69) Article 63.2
provides that "The procedures processed by the Spanish Agency for the Protection
of Data will be governed by the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this
organic law, by the regulatory provisions issued in its development and, in
as long as they do not contradict them, on a subsidiary basis, by the general rules on
administrative procedures."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/75

In accordance with articles 63.1 and 64.1 and 2 of the LOPDGDD, the procedures that are
processed by the AEPD are two: Those in which "an affected person claims that he has not
your request to exercise the rights recognized in articles 15 has been addressed
to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679" and those that "have as their object the
determination of the possible existence of a violation of the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and in this organic law”. Article 64.1 of the
LOPDGDD refers to the first of the procedures indicated when seeing
"exclusively" on "the lack of attention to a request to exercise the
rights established in articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

If the affected party does not request the AEPD "exclusively" the protection of the rights that
recognized in articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR, but simultaneously
file a claim for an alleged infringement of the protection regulations
of personal data, it is up to the AEPD to determine if both
claims will be substantiated or not in the same procedure.

As the AEPD indicated in the agreement to open this procedure, in the event
raised here, in which the claimant requests protection of the rights that she has
recognized in articles 15 and 17 of the GDPR and, simultaneously, denounces the
infringement of provisions of the GDPR, it was deemed appropriate to process both
claims through the disciplinary procedure. In the decision adopted
assessed the seriousness of the conduct of the defendant who, under the appearance
of having attended to the rights whose protection was claimed, acted ignoring
radically its content. Also, the large volume of personal data that the
claimed treats in the development of its business activity because we are before the
first mobile telecommunications operator in the national market by number
Of customers.

II

Article 85 of the LPACAP and violation of article 15 of the GDPR.

Article 85 of the LPACAP provides:

"1. Initiated a disciplinary procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
The procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction has only a pecuniary nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the presumed responsible in
any moment prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the offence.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
The competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of at least
20% of the amount of the proposed penalty, these being cumulative among themselves.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or resource against the sanction.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/75

The percentage reduction provided for in this section may be increased
according to regulations."

In the seventh Antecedent of this resolution it is stated that VODAFONE proceeded in
date 03/01/2022 to the advance payment of the sanction established in the opening agreement
for the violation of article 15 of the GDPR with a reduction of forty percent.
Pursuant to article 85.3. of the LPACAP the anticipated payment of the sanction foreseen
caused the termination of the disciplinary procedure with respect to said infraction.

IV.

applicable provisions

The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that govern the treatment of personal data.
personal data, precept that provides:

"1. Personal data will be:
a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner with the interested party (<<legality, loyalty and
transparency>>)
b) [...] ("purpose limitation");
c) [...] ("data minimization");
d) accurate and, if necessary, up-to-date; all measures will be taken
Reasonable reasons for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed ("accuracy");
e) [...] ("retention period limitation");
f) processed in such a way as to guarantee adequate data security
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

2. The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions
in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (<<proactive responsibility>>)”

Article 6 of the GDPR under the heading "Legacy of the treatment" specifies in its section
1 the cases in which the processing of third-party data is considered lawful:

"1. Processing will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:
a) the interested party gave his consent for the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the
responsible for the treatment;
d) the processing is necessary to protect vital interests of the data subject or of another
Physical person.
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/75

interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.

The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

For its part, the LOPDGDD establishes in article 20, under the heading "Systems of
credit information”:

"1. Unless proven otherwise, the processing of personal data will be presumed lawful.
related to the breach of monetary, financial or credit obligations by
common credit information systems when the following are met
requirements:
to) [...]
b) [...]
c) [...]
d) [...]
e) That the data referring to a specific debtor can only be
consulted when the person consulting the system maintained a contractual relationship
with the affected party that implies the payment of a pecuniary amount or this would have
requested the conclusion of a contract that involves financing, deferred payment or
periodic billing, as happens, among other cases, in those provided for in the
legislation on consumer credit contracts and real estate credit contracts.
When the right to limitation of processing has been exercised before the system
of the data challenging its accuracy in accordance with the provisions of article 18.1.a) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the system will inform those who could consult it with
accordance with the previous paragraph about the mere existence of said circumstance, without
provide the specific data with respect to which the right had been exercised, in
both are resolved on the request of the affected party.
f) That, in the event that the request for the conclusion of the contract is denied, or it
will not be held, as a result of the consultation carried out, whoever has
Once the system has been consulted, inform the affected party of the result of said consultation.”

Chapter III of the GDPR, "Rights of the interested parties", refers, among others, to the
right to delete data. Article 17 of the GDPR provides:

 “Right to erasure (“the right to be forgotten”)

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain without undue delay from the person responsible for the
treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which will be
obliged to delete without undue delay the personal data when any
of the following circumstances:
a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which it was
were collected or otherwise processed;
b) the interested party withdraws the consent on which the treatment is based in accordance
with Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a) and this is not
based on another legal basis;
c) the interested party opposes the processing in accordance with article 21, paragraph 1, and does not
other legitimate reasons for the treatment prevail, or the interested party opposes the
treatment according to article 21, paragraph 2;
d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed;
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/75

e) personal data must be deleted to comply with a legal obligation
established in the law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
responsible for the treatment;
f) the personal data have been obtained in relation to the offer of services of the
information society referred to in article 8, paragraph 1.

2. When you have made the personal data public and are obliged, by virtue of the
provided in section 1, to delete said data, the person responsible for the treatment,
taking into account the technology available and the cost of its application, it will adopt
reasonable measures, including technical measures, with a view to informing
responsible who are processing the personal data of the request of the interested party
deletion of any link to such personal data, or any copy or replica of
the same.

3. Sections 1 and 2 will not apply when the treatment is necessary:
a) to exercise the right to freedom of expression and information;
b) for compliance with a legal obligation that requires data processing
imposed by the law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the
responsible for the treatment, or for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the person responsible;
c) for reasons of public interest in the field of public health in accordance with
Article 9, paragraph 2, letters h) and i), and paragraph 3;
d) for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes or
statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89(1), to the extent that
the right indicated in paragraph 1 could make it impossible or hinder
seriously impair the achievement of the objectives of such treatment, or
e) for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims.” (The underlining is
our)

V

Violation of article 6.1. of the GDPR: Treatment of the NIF of the linked claimant
when registering a prepaid line.

1. In the initial agreement, VODAFONE was attributed a violation of article 6.1. of the
GDPR derived from having processed the NIF of the claimant linked to a line
prepaid that she did not contract, since the treatment of that personal data does not
it was based on none of the causes of legality that the precept establishes.

In its allegations to the initiation agreement, VODAFONE denied that the treatment
carried out violates article 6.1 of the GDPR. It considered that this treatment was lawful
and invoked as a legal basis its section c): "the treatment is necessary for the
compliance with a legal obligation applicable to the data controller”.

He explained that the legal obligation was imposed by the Sole Additional Provision of the
Law 25/2007, of October 18, on the conservation of data related to the
electronic communications and public communications networks (hereinafter the
Law 25/2007) that establishes:

“Telephony services through prepaid cards.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/75

1. Mobile telephone service operators that market services
with activation system through the modality of prepaid cards,
must keep a book-registry in which the identity of the clients that
acquire a smart card with said payment method.
Operators will inform customers, prior to the sale, of the
existence and content of the record, its availability under the terms
expressed in the following number and the rights included in the article
38.6 of Law 32/2003.
The identification will be made by means of a document accrediting the
personality, recording in the registry book the name, surnames and
nationality of the buyer, as well as the number corresponding to the document
identification used and the nature or name of said document. In it
course of legal persons, [...].
2. From the activation of the prepaid card and until the obligation to
conservation referred to in article 5 of this Law, the operators will cede
the identification data provided for in the previous section, when for the
fulfillment of their purposes are required by the authorized agents, the
members of the State Security Forces and Bodies and the Bodies
Police of the Autonomous Communities with competence for the protection
of persons and property and for the maintenance of public safety, the
National Intelligence Center personnel in the course of investigations
of security on persons or entities, as well as officials of the
Deputy Directorate of Customs Surveillance.
3. The identifying data will be subject to the provisions of this Law,
regarding the systems that guarantee their conservation, not manipulation or
illegal access, destruction, cancellation and identification of the authorized person.
[...]”. (The underlining is ours)

Section 3 of the Additional provision refers to other precepts of Law 25/2007
as articles 8 and 9. Article 8, "Data protection and security" provides:

"1. The obligated subjects must identify the personnel especially
authorized to access the data object of this Law, adopt the measures
technical and organizational that prevent its manipulation or use for different purposes
of those included in it, its accidental or illegal destruction and its loss
accidental, as well as its storage, treatment, disclosure or access not
authorized, subject to the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of 13 December
December, and in its implementing regulations.
2. Obligations relating to measures to guarantee the quality of the
data and the confidentiality and security in the treatment of the same will be the
established in the Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, and its regulation of
development.
3. The level of protection of the stored data will be determined according to
in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, and
in its development regulations.
4. The Spanish Data Protection Agency is the public authority
responsible for ensuring compliance with the provisions of the Organic Law
15/1999, of December 13, and the development regulations applicable to
data contemplated in this Law.” (The underlining is ours)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/75

Article 9 of Law 25/2007, "Exceptions to the rights of access and cancellation"
provides in its section 2:

"The data controller will deny the exercise of the right to
cancellation under the terms and conditions set forth in Organic Law 15/1999,
of December 13.” (The underlining is ours)

References to Organic Law 15/1999 on the Protection of Personal Data
Personal (LOPD) must now be understood as made to the RGPD and the LOPDGDD.

The processing of personal data that operators carry out under the Law
25/2007 is subject, in any case, to the regulations for the protection of personal data.
staff. This is confirmed by the Council of State in its Opinion 32/2007, of
02/22/2007, issued in relation to the Data Preservation Bill
relating to electronic communications and public communications networks
in which, with regard to the data processed in application of the Provision
Unique Additional, mentions, reiterating it, the criteria of the Legal Office of the AEPD
in his report:

"The keeping of the aforementioned book-registry will suppose a treatment of data, as
points out the AEPD, which at all points must be in accordance with the provisions of
Organic Law 15/1999; However, specialties may be established or
exceptions in those aspects in which that organic law allows the
they are established by law (for example, article 6.1 and 11.2.a).”

2. In view of what was alleged by the defendant in defense of the legality of her conduct -
allegations that are set forth in detail in point 2, section (i) A of the Antecedent
Sixth of this resolution - it corresponds to examine what is the content and the reason for being
of the obligation that the Sole Additional Provision of Law 25/2007 imposes on
telephone operators, in this case VODAFONE.

The need to determine the scope of this legal obligation derives from the fact that it is in
it, in connection with article 6.1.c) of the GDPR, on which it is intended to base the
legality of the treatment object of the claim and that the defendant has referred to
the Sole Additional Provision as “the yardstick to be taken by
Vodafone and the rest of the operators.”

The purpose pursued with the obligation contained in the aforementioned provision is
contribute to the fight against crime, providing the authorities that have the
power to ensure public safety of an instrument that allows them to
control the use of these devices for criminal purposes. The Preamble of the Law
25/2007, section II, penultimate paragraph, says:

"The provisions contained in the final part include content
various. On the one hand, and in order to be able to establish instruments to
control the use for criminal purposes of mobile telephone equipment
acquired through the prepaid modality, it is established, as an obligation of
the operators that market said service, the keeping of a register with the
identity of the buyers. (The underlining is ours)

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/75

Regarding the content of the imposed obligation, it is noted that it is not reduced to the fact that the
operators leave a record in a record book of the "identity" of the person who
acquires a prepaid card (“keep a record book in which the identity of the
customers who purchase a card"). The standard does not only oblige the operator to
keep a record book with the "identity" of the smart card purchaser. That
conduct is preceded by a double obligation to which the operator is subject
responsible for the treatment: the "identification" of the acquirer of the prepaid card and the
use to effect such “identification” of a specific medium (“through a
document accrediting personality").

The dictionary of the Royal Academy of the Spanish Language (RAE) defines the term
“identification” as “action and effect of identifying or identifying oneself” and the term
“identify” as “Recognize if a person or thing is the same as what is supposed or
seeks." The term "identity" (in its second meaning) as a "set of traits
characteristic of an individual or a community that characterize them in front of the others”.
 
Thus, it is concluded that the Additional provision examined obliges the operator, with
prior to the collection of personal data in the record book, to "recognize" that
the identity data that the acquirer of the smart card has provided you
coincide, are the same, that appear in the document accrediting your
personality. In short, in the context in which the provision is applicable
Unique additional -that of the acquisition of prepaid cards- the obligation to
"identify" that falls on the operator translates into "recognize" if the data of
identity, that is, the elements or traits with which the identity has been characterized before him.
person who intends to acquire a smart card - the name, surname, number of the
identification document provided and nature of the document and even its image
physical - are those that appear in the "document" "accrediting personality".

Law 25/2007 obliges the operator to identify, to “Recognize if a
person [...] is the same as supposed [..].”, is carried out through a
"document accrediting personality". In our legal system that
This document is, par excellence, the "national identity document" or "DNI", the only one that
by itself proves indubitably the identity of its owner.

Organic Law 4/2015, of March 30, on the protection of citizen security (in
onwards Organic Law 4/2015) establishes in its article 8, framed in Chapter II,
"Documentation and personal identification":

“Accreditation of the identity of Spanish citizens.
1. Spaniards have the right to be issued the National Document of
Identity.
The National Identity Document is a public and official document and will have
the protection granted to them by law. It is the only document with
sufficient value by itself for the accreditation, for all purposes, of the
identity and personal data of its owner.
2. The National Identity Document will include the photograph and the signature of your
owner, as well as the personal data determined by regulation,
that they will respect the right to privacy of the person without, in any case,
may be related to race, ethnicity, religion, beliefs, opinion, ideology,
disability, sexual orientation or identity, or political or union affiliation. The

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/75

support card of the National Identity Document will incorporate the measures of
security necessary for the achievement of quality conditions and
inalterability and maximum guarantees to prevent its falsification. (The underline
is ours)

Organic Law 4/2015 also mentions, as means of identification
personal, these documents: The "Passport of Spanish citizens", regulated in the
article 11 that provides “1. The Spanish passport is a public, personal document,
individual and non-transferable that, unless proven otherwise, proves the identity and
nationality of Spanish citizens outside of Spain, and within the territory
national, the same circumstances as non-resident Spaniards.” And that
certify the identity of foreign citizens under the terms of article 13.

In turn, Royal Decree 1553/2005, of December 23, which regulates the
issuance of the national identity document and its electronic signature certificates,
whose last update is 05/30/2015 (hereinafter, the Royal Decree
1553/2005) says in its article 1:

"1. The National Identity Document is a personal and
non-transferable issued by the Ministry of the Interior that enjoys the protection that
public and official documents are granted by law. Its holder will be obliged
to the custody and conservation of the same.
2. Said Document has sufficient value, by itself, to prove the identity
and the personal data of its owner that are recorded therein, as well as the
Spanish nationality of the same.
3. Each National Identity Document will be assigned a personal number
which will be considered a personal numerical identifier of character
general.
4.[...]” (The underlining is ours)

For its part, article 11 of the Royal Decree, under the heading "Content" indicates:

"The National Identity Document will graphically collect the following data
of its holder: On the obverse: [...] Personal Number of the National Document of
Identity and verification character corresponding to the Identification Number
Fiscal." (The underlining is ours)

The explicit reference that the Additional provision of Law 25/2007 makes to the means of
identification, to the "document" accrediting personality, presupposes that the
operator has to physically access the document. The use of
the photocopy, since it lacks the security guarantees enjoyed by the
original document. Regarding the DNI, we refer to the last paragraph of the
article 8.2 of the Organic Law 4/2015, reproduced above, and article 10 of the
Royal Decree 1553/2005 "Characteristics of the support card" which says:

"1. The material, format and design of the support card of the National Document of
Identity will be determined by the Ministry of the Interior, taking into account in its
elaboration the use of procedures and products conducive to the
achievement of quality and inalterability conditions and maximum guarantees
to prevent its forgery. An electronic chip will be incorporated into the object of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

45/75

enable the computer utility referred to in article 1.4 of this Royal
Decree."

In line with the foregoing, it should be noted that the allegation of
VODAFONE, according to which the third party that intervened in the contracting did not contract
the line "in the name of the claimant" but in his own name. The defendant insists on
that idea on several occasions and takes into consideration for this that the third party that
intervened in the contracting was identified with the NIF of the claimant, but not with the
name and surname of the claimant but with that of B.B.B.. However, it
determining factor is that the NIF used by the purchaser of the prepaid product was that of the
claimant and that data has "per se" value to fully identify its owner with
all the data contained in it, also the name and surname. While the
names and surnames can coincide in several subjects, the NIF is exclusive of the
person to whom it is assigned.

3. In consideration of the foregoing, it is obligatory to conclude that article 6.1.c) of the
GDPR, in connection with the Unique Additional Provision of Law 25/2007, is a
valid grounds for the legality of the treatment that telephone operators make
of the personal data of which card purchasers are holders
intelligent, as long as the data processing carried out by the operator is
adheres to and has the sole purpose of complying with the provisions of that law.

In this sense, it should be noted that section c) of article 6.1 of the GDPR, in connection
with Law 25/2007, does not cover the treatment that the operators carry out, for other
purposes other than that pursued by the Unique Additional provision, of the data
collected in compliance with that provision, such as those related to
the development and execution of the contract. The treatments eventually carried out by a
operator for purposes other than those contemplated in the Additional provision
aforementioned, must be covered by one of the other legal bases
described in article 6.1. of the GDPR, but not in section c) in connection with the
Law 25/2007.

Likewise, it must be concluded with respect to the assumption that is being examined here that it is not
possible to protect the legality of the treatment that VODAFONE made of the NIF of the
claimant on the legal basis of section c) of article 6.1 of the GDPR in relation to
with the obligation imposed in the Sole Additional Provision of Law 25/2007.

The obligation imposed in the aforementioned provision of Law 25/2007, connected with the
Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR, authorizes the operators, exclusively, to process the data
of which the persons who acquire a prepaid card are holders; by way of
that the processing of data that does not identify the purchaser of this type of service
is outside the coverage of the aforementioned Additional provision.

As we have previously indicated, in the data processing that the operators
carried out in compliance with Law 25/2007, it is mandatory to always respect the
data protection regulations. Moreover, Law 25/2007 expressly provides that
apply to the data mentioned in it the obligations established by the
GDPR (formerly LOPD) to guarantee the quality of the data. In the context of the
Unique Additional provision of Law 25/2007, the inaccuracy of the data that the
operator links the purchaser of a prepaid card -especially if the data is a

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

46/75

DNI, since it unequivocally identifies a person- prevents this treatment from being
considered lawful on the basis of article 6.1.c) of the GDPR in connection with the provision
of Law 25/2007. Provision that, as has been said, imposes on the operator the
obligation to collect data that identifies the purchaser of the smart card
but not the data of third parties.

The reasons stated lead to rejecting VODAFONE's claims to the
agreement to initiate this procedure in which it maintains that the circumstance of
that the NIF data is erroneous is irrelevant and in no way affects the legality of the
treatment carried out. The defendant said:

"Vodafone is obliged by Law 25/2007 to treat the "corresponding number
to the identification document used" by the buyer of the prepaid card;
A different matter is that said number turns out to be wrong or has been used
through fraud by a third party, but this may not imply, in any case,
a violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR.” (The underlining is ours)

On the other hand, VODAFONE has recognized in its allegations to the start-up agreement
(third allegation) that the NIF data of the claimant who was subject to treatment
linked to the prepaid line did not belong to the purchaser of the card. The entity has
saying:

“[...] there may be cases, such as this one, in which Vodafone processes data
personal that does not belong to the prepaid card applicant, but to a third party
(the Claimant). This is what has happened in this case: it is evidence and not the
we deny.” (The underlining is ours)

In short, the conduct of VODAFONE that is the object of analysis constitutes a
illegal treatment of the claimant's NIF and violates article 6.1 of the GDPR. The
claimed tried the NIF of the claimant and not that of the purchaser of the prepaid service,
only data that it was empowered to collect in accordance with the legal obligation whose
compliance has invoked: the Sole Additional Provision of Law 25/2007.

4. Once the existence of unlawful conduct by VODAFONE has been proven - the treatment
of the NIF of the claimant without a legal basis- the question focuses on determining whether in such a
conduct may give rise to penalizing administrative responsibility.

4.1. As mentioned by the defendant in her statement of allegations, the responsibility
objective is proscribed in our legal system. In Administrative Law
sanction governs the principle of guilt, so the subjective element or
culpability is an indispensable condition for liability to arise
sanctioning. The Constitutional Court, among others, in its STC 76/1999, has
declared that administrative sanctions participate in the same nature as
criminal, as it is one of the manifestations of the ius puniendi of the State, and that, as
requirement derived from the principles of legal certainty and criminal legality
enshrined in articles 9.3 and 25.1 of the CE, its existence is essential to
impose them

Regarding the guilt of the legal person, it is appropriate to cite STC 246/1991, 19
of December 1991 (F.J. 2), according to which, with respect to legal persons, the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

47/75

subjective element of guilt must necessarily be applied differently to
as it is done with respect to natural persons and adds that "This different construction
of the attribution of the authorship of the infringement to the legal entity arises from the very
nature of legal fiction to which these subjects respond. Missing in them the
volitional element in the strict sense, but not the ability to break the rules to which
which they are subjected Infringement capacity and, therefore, direct reproach that
derives from the legal right protected by the rule that is infringed and the need for
such protection is really effective [...]” (The emphasis is ours)

Law 40/2015 on the Legal Regime of the Public Sector establishes in article 28,
"Responsibility":

  "1. They may only be penalized for acts constituting an infringement
administrative authority for natural and legal persons, as well as when a Law
recognize the capacity to act, the groups affected, the unions and entities
without legal personality and independent or autonomous estates, which
are responsible for them by way of fraud or negligence.”

In the light of this precept, the sanctioning responsibility can be demanded by way of
fraud or negligence, being sufficient in the latter case the mere non-observance of the duty of
careful.

4.2. VODAFONE dedicates the third allegation of its allegations to the start-up agreement to
defend that, with respect to the unlawful conduct that has been accredited,
No guilt of any kind was involved on his part. Accordingly, request the file
of the file due to the absence of the necessary element of guilt.

The defendant has tried to justify the absence of guilt in her conduct - the
registration of the prepaid line linked to the NIF of the claimant - with various arguments,
as the criminal action of a third party (the contracting party), who would have circumvented the
VODAFONE controls. Also in the existence of an error not attributable to the
entity. He has stated that “[...] there may be cases, such as this one, in which
Vodafone processes personal data that does not belong to the applicant for the prepaid card,
but to a third party (the Claimant). [...] we would be faced with cases in which the
applicant (the Third Party), using tricks and using his experience to his advantage
criminal, has managed to evade the controls established by Vodafone, causing the
human error at the Point of Sale.”

The decision to file a disciplinary file may be based on the absence of the
element of guilt when the person responsible for the unlawful conduct had
acted with all the diligence that the circumstances of the case require. This is recognized by the
demanded when echoing the pronouncement of the STS of January 23,
1998 in which, as stated, the Court declares that "for the exculpation
the invocation of the absence of guilt will suffice, but it will be necessary that
used the diligence that was required by the person claiming its non-existence.”

In compliance with the principle of guilt, the AEPD has agreed on numerous
occasions the file of sanctioning procedures in which the
element of the guilt of the offending subject. Cases in which, despite the existence of a
unlawful behavior, it had been proven that the person responsible had
acted with all the diligence that was required, for which reason no fault was appreciated

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

48/75

some in his conduct. This has been the criterion maintained by the Contentious Chamber
Administrative, section 1, of the National Court. They can be cited, because they are very
illuminating, the following sentences:

- SAN of April 26, 2002 (Rec. 895/2009) which says:
"In effect, it is not possible to affirm the existence of guilt from the result and this is
what the Agency does when maintaining that by not having impeded the security measures
the result is guilt. Far from it what must be done and is missed in the
Resolution is to analyze the adequacy of the measures from the parameters of
average diligence required in the data traffic market. Well, if you work with full
diligence, scrupulously fulfilling the duties derived from an act
diligent, it is not possible to affirm or presume the existence of any fault.” (The underlining is
of the AEPD)

- SAN of April 29, 2010, Sixth Legal Basis, which, regarding a
fraudulent contracting, indicates that "The question is not to determine whether the appellant tried to
the personal data of the complainant without their consent, as if
whether or not you used reasonable diligence in trying to identify the person with
who signed the contract. (The underlining is from the AEPD)

4.3. At this point, it is worth remembering again what STC 246/1991 has
Said with regard to the guilt of the legal entity: that it does not lack the
“ability to break the rules to which they are subjected”. "Capacity of
infringement that derives from the legal right protected by the norm that is infringed and the
need for said protection to be really effective [...]”. (The underlining is
our)

In connection with the foregoing, reference must be made to article 5.2. of the GDPR (principle of
proactive responsibility), according to which the person responsible for the treatment will be
responsible for compliance with the provisions of section 1 - so here
interested, of the principle of legality in relation to article 6.1 of the GDPR- and capable of
demonstrate its compliance. The principle of proactivity transfers to the person in charge of the
treatment the obligation not only to comply with the regulations, but also to be able to
demonstrate such compliance

Article 5.2 is developed in article 24 of the GDPR, which obliges the controller to
adopt the appropriate technical and organizational measures "to guarantee and be able to
demonstrate” that the treatment is in accordance with the GDPR. The precept establishes:

"Responsibility of the data controller"
"1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
treatment, as well as risks of varying probability and severity for
rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller
apply appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee and be able to
Demonstrate that the treatment is in accordance with this Regulation. said
measures will be reviewed and updated when necessary.
2. When they are provided in relation to the treatment activities,
the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall include the application, for
part of the person responsible for the treatment, of the appropriate protection policies
of data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

49/75

3. Adherence to codes of conduct approved under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may be
used as elements to demonstrate compliance with obligations
by the controller." (The underlining is ours)

Article 25 of the GDPR, "Data protection by design and by default",
establishes:

“1.Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of the application and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as the risks of
varying probability and severity involved in the treatment for the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, the data controller will apply, both
at the time of determining the means of treatment as at the time
of the processing itself, appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as the
pseudonymization, designed to effectively apply the principles of
data protection, such as data minimization, and integrate safeguards
necessary in the treatment, in order to meet the requirements of this
Regulation and protect the rights of the interested parties.
2.[...]” (The underlining is ours)

It is worth asking what are the due diligence parameters that VODAFONE
should have observed in relation to the behavior examined. The answer is that the
diligence that he should have observed is that which was necessary to fulfill the obligations
imposed by the Unique Additional Provision of Law 25/2007 in relation to the
Articles 5.2, 24 and 25 of the GDPR, in light of the doctrine of the National Court and the
jurisprudence of the Supreme Court.

It is fully applicable to the case, despite having been issued during the validity of the Law
Organic Law 15/1999, the SAN of 10/17/2007 (Rec. 63/2006), which, after referring to
that the entities in which the development of their activity entails a continuous
processing of customer data and third parties must observe an adequate level of
diligence, says: "[...] the Supreme Court has been understanding that there is imprudence
whenever a legal duty of care is neglected, that is, when the offender does not
behaves with the required diligence. And in assessing the degree of diligence must
especially the professionalism or not of the subject should be considered, and there is no doubt that,
in the case now examined, when the appellant's activity is constant and
copious handling of personal data must insist on rigor and
Exquisite care to comply with the legal provisions in this regard”. (The underline
is from the AEPD)

VODAFONE maintains that, in compliance with the obligation imposed by the Law
25/2007, observed all the diligence that was required. To verify this statement
nothing better than examining the documentation that is in the file and accredits
what were the measures effectively adopted by that operator.

VODAFONE was asked in the test phase how it could prove to the AEPD that
the point of sale collected from the person who requested the contracting of the prepaid line
your original identity document (not a photocopy); that the point of sale verified your
identity and that it collected the client's identity data from the aforementioned document. The
The defendant replied that the distributor SERCOM had been bound in the contract of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

50/75

Wholesale Distribution subscribed with VODAFONE to transfer to the point of sale the
essential obligation to identify the client/buyer by means of their card
original identification and that, in turn, this obligation had been transferred to the contract
signed between the SERCOM distributor and the retail point of sale,
***ESTABLISHMENT.1.

It can thus be verified that the measures that the claimed operator had articulated
consisted solely of having established contractual clauses by virtue of the
which subjects are involved in the processing of the data of a purchaser of
a prepaid card -several subjects, since the person in charge of treatment, the Distributor
Wholesaler, followed by several sub managers, the points of sale, in this case
concrete *** ESTABLISHMENT.1 - are obliged to act in accordance with the Law.
We are dealing with mere contractual stipulations. The truth is that VODAFONE has not
not even been able to provide the documents that, in compliance with the provisions of the
Wholesale Distribution contract, should have in his possession, as is the case of the
certificate to be issued by the wholesale distributor.

Thus, in the sixth Proven Fact it is stated that the Wholesale Distribution contract
signed between VODAFONE and SERCOM, established (clause 12.2) that SERCOM "will give
transfer of all obligations regarding the protection of personal data
personnel to Retail outlets and will certify having transferred these
obligations by signing a standard certificate attached as
document IV.”.

Requested in evidence from VODAFONE the certificate issued by SERCOM under the
the aforementioned stipulation, the defendant responded by providing a form, annex IV to the
contract, in which there is no mention of SERCOM: in the document provided
The details of who should be the certifier (SERCOM) are not filled in.
The spaces for your NIF, name, address and information of your
representative; there is no SERCOM stamp or signature but a VODAFONE stamp
stamped twice and a signature with no indication of who it belongs to.

Annex II to the contract between SERCOM and VODAFONE, which bears the heading "Collection
of data. Wholesale distribution contract”, says that it contains the instructions
regarding compliance with the Sole Additional Provision of Law 25/2007, regarding
of (i) the face-to-face identification and data collection of customers who purchase a
Prepaid Card or a Prepaid Pack prior to the sale and (ii) the information
to them in the terms described in the aforementioned Law, all in accordance with
the provisions of clause 11.2 of the Wholesale Distribution Agreement of which the
Annex brings cause.

It is verified that Annex II to the Wholesale Distribution contract says in its
 “In-person Identification and Data Collection of the
first stipulation,
Customer/Buyer":

"1. The WHOLESALER must transfer to the retail Point of Sale through the
subscription of an agreement that includes obligations related in the present
annex, the essential obligation to identify PRESENTIALLY the
Customer /Buyer
original identification card. *   The
Documentation to be presented by natural persons according to their nationality and

 through his

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

51/75

situation is as follows: -For Spaniards: DNI or NIF. -For citizens of the
European Community ID, Residence Card and Passport are accepted. -For
Citizens from outside the European Community: Passport or NIE. [...].” (He
underlined is ours)

However, in the contract for the retail distribution of telephony products signed
between SERCOM and ***ESTABLECIMIENTO.1, (document number 6 of those provided
in test phase) for the sale of VODAFONE prepaid services is not
does not include any reference to the identification document that is collected from the
buyer must be the original (we refer to article 4.1.c) of the contract, see
Proven Fact seventh, third paragraph).

Regarding the controls planned by VODAFONE to verify compliance that
managers and sub managers make the obligations imposed on them by
contracts, it was requested in the test phase to detail which ones it had
established in order to verify that the contracts with the retail outlets were
adjusted to law.

VODAFONE explains that the controls consisted, on the one hand, of the certificate that
SERCOM issued according to the model in Annex IV to the Wholesale Distribution contract,
in compliance with the obligation established in its clause 12.2. About this
certificate, as has been exposed, despite the fact that it was requested in the test phase, the
The defendant has not provided it, since the document that it sends does not include any
reference to SERCOM so it is difficult to certify something through it. By
another, VODAFONE referred to the fact that the distributor, in accordance with clause 11.1 of the
Wholesale Distribution contract, was obliged to inform VODAFONE of the
identity of the points of sale with which it entered into contracts and on which
products supplied to you. In relation to this measure, it is unknown what
In this way, with that single measure, VODAFONE could know, and even less control, if the
points of sale followed or did not follow the identification protocol of the purchasers of the
prepaid cards provided for in the contract with the Wholesale Distributor.

The lack of diligence shown by VODAFONE in its
obligation to keep a record of processing activities (RAT). this lack
has a direct impact on the probability that the defendant adopts the measures
appropriate to guarantee compliance with the principle of legality with respect to data
such as the NIF, whose treatment is not reflected in the RAT that the entity
He has provided.

Article 30 of the GDPR requires that the RAT describe, among others, "the
categories of personal data”. In response to the request made to the defendant in
test phase to provide that record, the document you have provided refers to
exclusively on the activity of the Distributors-Franchisees and does not make any
reference to the NIF data or to the identification documents that must be collected with
occasion of the sale of prepaid products. Nor does it mention as the legal basis of the
treatment which has been invoked in its allegations as a legal basis for the
treatment (article 6.1.c, of the GDPR in relation to the Additional provision of the
Law 25/2007). On the contrary, in the RAT provided it is contemplated as a legal basis that
“People have given their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more purposes.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

52/75

Thus, the privacy policy of VODAFONE that it says was mocked by the
criminal action by a third party, is reduced, in practice, to including in the
contracts signed with the wholesale distributor and between it and the points of sale
obligation to identify the purchaser of the prepaid service in accordance with the provision
Additional Law 25/2007. That, with the qualification that the contract with
***ESTABLISHMENT.1 did not require that the identification document be the original.
The additional obligations that are incorporated into the Wholesale Distribution contract,
such as the certificates that the distributor had to issue, have not been fulfilled.

The adoption of any specific measure is not contemplated in accordance with articles
5.2, 24 and 25 of the GDPR to prove compliance with the obligation that arises
for VODAFONE of Law 25/2007. In short, there has been no conduct
proactive materialized in the adoption of appropriate technical and organizational measures
to effectively apply the data protection principles.

It therefore follows that, as indicated in the initiation agreement, the security policy
of VODAFONE is clearly ineffective and insufficient, it is well below the
possibilities that current technical development offers and does not take into account the
evident risk that contracting the services it sells represents for
the rights and freedoms of people

4.4. Finally, the allegations made by VODAFONE on purpose are reproduced
of the considerations that were included in the agreement to initiate this
procedure regarding the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR at hand.

It was said in the initiation agreement that, by virtue of the principle of proactive responsibility
(article 5.2 GDPR), the data controller must be in a position to
demonstrate that the data processing carried out complied with the principles
of data protection, in particular the principle of legality. which meant that
should be able to prove that he had identified the person with whom he hired
through the means required by Law 25/2007 and that this person was the holder of the NIF
treatment object.

It was added that the defendant, in her response to the request for information from the
Inspection Sub-Directorate, prior to admitting the claim for processing, had
provided this Agency with various documentation with which he intended to justify that his
action was adjusted to law but, however, did not provide any proof
that demonstrates that, when contracting the line associated with the NIF of the
claimant, acted with the diligence that was required in compliance with the principle of
legality. She had limited herself to stating that the third party that contracted with her and
identified with the NIF of the claimant "satisfactorily passed the
security" of the company "because to carry out the registration of a prepaid line
requires the display of an official identification document before the agents of the
physical stores. (The underlining is ours)

It was then said that the security policy followed by the defendant did not allow her to
prove, not even indicatively, that the store agents collected the
contracting third party the display of an identification document; that he exhibited it;
that the defendant, through its agents, checked it against the identity data

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

53/75

provided and that the result of that comparison confirmed that the contracting party was the
owner of the data provided as his, so that policy was not consistent
with the proactive attitude that the person in charge must adopt to fulfill the obligation
imposed by the GDPR to respect the principle of legality.

Reference was also made to the considerations on the principle of proactivity
offers Opinion 3/2010, of the Article 29 Working Group (GT29) -WP 173-
issued during the validity of the repealed Directive 95/46/EEC, but whose
reflections are applicable today, in which it is stated that the "essence" of the
Proactive responsibility is the obligation of the data controller to apply
measures which, under normal circumstances, ensure that, in the context of
processing operations, data protection regulations are complied with
and in having available documents that demonstrate to the interested parties and the
Control authorities what measures have been adopted to achieve compliance
of data protection regulations.

For all these reasons, in the opening agreement it was considered that the security policy of
VODAFONE was clearly ineffective and insufficient and it was also noted that this
The lack of solidity of the measures affected the graduation of the sanction of a fine
The circumstance of article 83.2.d) of the GDPR must be applied as an aggravating circumstance
regarding the "degree of responsibility of the controller (...) taking into account the
technical or organizational measures that they have applied under articles 25 and
32.”

Faced with these considerations made by the AEPD in the initiation agreement, which
reiterate, VODAFONE has stated the following:

“[...]if the Agency intends to increase the requirements in terms of identification
incorporating obligations of conservation and technical verification of
documents, what proceeds is to approve rules to that end [...] and later, in
where appropriate, penalize the operator that does not apply them, but what is not
according to law is to try to directly use the disciplinary route as
method of setting the required security parameters.”

"In fact, in this specific case there is no possibility for the
private operators to check if the ID number corresponds
effectively to the person who claims to be the owner and accredits it with a document
that can be manipulated. Otherwise, it would go against the regulations of
data protection, and that is that the only way to avoid fraud like the one that has
origin of this file would be that Vodafone had access to a database
data that would allow verifying that if the ID number used by the
applicant actually belongs to the applicant in question.” (The underlining is
our)

The reflections that were made in the opening agreement, which are reiterated in this
resolution, are not, as VODAFONE argues, an attempt by the Agency to "increase"
“the requirements in terms of identification incorporating obligations of
preservation and technical verification of documents”. Contrary to what the claimed
maintains that the AEDP has limited itself to examining the sufficiency of the measures that
VODAFONE had established to prove the identity of the person who contracts with it

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

54/75

a prepaid service in compliance with the Additional provision of Law 25/2007, to
in light of articles 5.2, 24 and 25 of the GDPR.

Therefore, in view of the foregoing, it must be concluded that VODAFONE is responsible
of a violation of article 6.1. of the GDPR typified in article 83.5.a) GDPR,
precept that says:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, according to
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000
or, in the case of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4%
of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount:
a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”.

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD qualifies as a very serious offense "The treatment of
personal data without the fulfillment of any of the conditions of legality of the treatment
established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.” The limitation period
for very serious offenses (article 72.1) is three years.

SAW

Violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR: Consultation of the ASNEF file linked to the NIF of the
claimant:

In the agreement to initiate this disciplinary procedure, VODAFONE was identified as
ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A8090739, as responsible for an alleged infringement
of article 6.1. of the GDPR specified in having consulted the solvency file
ASNEF using the NIF of the claimant without a circumstance concurring
legitimizing that treatment. Subsequently, the motion for a resolution confirmed
VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

However, in the EQUIFAX document, dated 12/11/2020, that the claimant
attached to your claim, accrediting the consultation to the ASNEF file on 09/15/2020
linked to his NIF, it is clear that the person who made this query was the company VODAFONE
ONO, S.A.U. This company, whose NIF is A62186566, is a different legal entity
of the one identified as the claimed party of this proceeding.

Article 28 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Legal Regime of the Sector
Public (LRJSP), under the heading "Responsibility" provides in section 1:

"Only those that may be penalized for acts constituting an administrative infraction
physical and legal persons, [...], who are responsible for them by way of
fraud or fault."

Therefore, with regard to the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR specified in
having treated the claimant's NIF without legitimacy to consult a file of
solvency on 09/15/2020, the filing of this file must be agreed
penalized for not being attributable such conduct to the claimed party, VODAFONE
ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

55/75

It is also indicated that, as long as it has not prescribed, nothing prevents the opening of a
disciplinary proceedings against VODAFONE ONO, S.A.U., as responsible for a
violation of article 6.1. of the GDPR derived from the treatment of the NIF of the claimant
without legal basis specified in the consultation of a solvency file.

As indicated in the agreement to initiate this procedure, article 72 of the
LOPDGDD qualifies the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR as very serious and establishes
for it a limitation period of three years, so that the aforementioned infringement
It will prescribe on 09/15/2023.

VII

Infringement of article 17 of the GDPR

1. In the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, VODAFONE was attributed
an infringement of article 17 of the GDPR for not having attended, in the terms
established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the right of deletion exercised by the
claimant with respect to the data of his NIF, despite the fact that the claimed operator came
obligated to suppression in accordance with section 1.d) of that provision. Infraction that the
claimed has rejected.

We will refer, first of all, to the facts related to this conduct.
contrary to the GDPR:

The claimant requested VODAFONE to delete the data from her NIF on 01/24/2021. The
claimed did not attend to her right until 05/27/2021, when the
more than four months from the request and after it was known by the AEPD, in
the framework of the transfer actions of the Sub-directorate of Inspection, which existed
a claim against it presented by affected before this Agency.

The claimant provided VODAFONE with annexes to her request to delete the date
01/24/2020 sent to the email address derechosprotecciondatos@vodafone.es,
these documents: the signed application, a copy of your ID and the extension of the
complaint filed with the Police. The copy of the police report had been sent to
VODAFONE days before, with an email dated 12/21/2020.

VODAFONE responded by email dated 01/26/2021 in which
said:

 “[...] In view of your request, in which you exercise the right [...] We regret
inform you that this entity cannot generate the deletion of the data
requested since they are necessary to provide the service to the line
prepaid ***PHONE.1, we understand the purpose of your request, without
However, and in case of not recognizing the product, we could generate a
rectification of data so that the service is recorded in your name and you can carry out
use thereof; We emphasize that prepaid products cannot be
deactivated, failing that we can wait for the card to expire
(Approximately estimated expiration date to June 2021 if not

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

56/75

generate recharges), after that you could again request your right to
suppression." (The underlining is ours)

The defendant, in addition to stating in her response that she "cannot" proceed to the
deletion of the data because it was necessary to provide the service to the prepaid line and
“emphasize” that prepaid products cannot be deactivated, informed the
claimant that they should wait for the prepaid card to expire, which is
It would foreseeably occur, provided no recharges were generated, in June 2021.
He informed him that, on that date, he should once again exercise his right to
suppression. VODAFONE also offered this alternative that qualifies itself:
put the line to your name. In other words, rectify the name and surname data
provided by the third party that contracted with her and that were recorded in their systems and
replace them with those of the claimant.

VODAFONE responded on 02/03/2021 to an email from the complainant dated
02/1/2021 in which he asked if, as he had been informed through Facebook, the
operator had already proceeded to suppress his NIF. In this email dated 02/03/2021
VODAFONE reiterated its refusal to comply with the right of deletion and said:

"(...) In response to your email, we must inform you that the hotline
***TELEPHONE.1 corresponding to the file registered with your phone number
National Identity Document was expired by our fraud area with the
purpose of avoiding any type of use, however, it still registers in
our system and will only be disconnected until June 2021, which
makes it impossible for your data to be deleted from our system. (...)
Finally, we make the clarification that your request (Deletion of data)
It can only be attended to until the previously stated date (June
2021), therefore it is necessary that you send us this request at the end of the month
exposed. (...)” (The underlining is ours)

From the message it can be clearly inferred that VODAFONE recognized that the NIF linked to
the prepaid line did not belong to the contracting party but to the claimant, since the line "was
expired” by the “fraud” area of the operator; but, despite this, the personal data
of the claimant will not be deleted until June, when the prepaid line is
disconnected.

2. The defendant has denied that it has violated article 17 of the GDPR and has
stated that, despite the fact that the "wording" of their answers was "unfortunate",
respected the applicable regulations.

You have argued that, pursuant to Article 17 of the GDPR, you were not required to
to suppress the NIF data of the claimant because the treatment of this data was not
illicit. And he has justified his statement, in line with what is alleged in this proceeding, in
that the treatment of the DNI provided by the applicant for the prepaid card "[...] comes
imposed by the Sole Additional Provision of Law 25/2007”. Furthermore, he adds that
"Vodafone does not keep this data (DNI number) related to the identity of the
Claimant, but with the identity (name and surname) of the Third Party”. We refer to
what has already been stated in the First Allegation to avoid unnecessary repetitions

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

57/75

It has also argued that two of the exceptions in section 3 of the
Article 17 of the GDPR:

The one provided for in letter b), on which it says that "The treatment of the DNI number
provided by the Third Party was necessary for Vodafone to comply with a
legal obligation”, which is the one imposed by the Sole Additional Provision and article 5,
both of Law 25/2007. It considers that, according to the Additional provision "the
Telephone operators are obliged to collect certain data from the applicant
of a prepaid card, including "the number corresponding to the document
identifier used "", and that, in accordance with the rules on data conservation
of article 5 of Law 25/2007, was obliged to keep the DNI "provided by the
contracting of the prepaid card”.

The second exception to the application of section 1 of article 17 of the GDPR that
judgment of the claimed party would be applicable is that of section e) of article 17, on
which comments that it was "authorized to keep the data provided by the Third Party
in the event that in the future said data is necessary to formulate, exercise or
defend against any claim. In this sense, it becomes important again
fact that Vodafone had not associated the Complainant with the identity, but rather
with that of the Third Party, that is, who registered the prepaid card, which had also
been flagged as "fraud".

3. Law 25/2007 establishes in article 9, “Exceptions to the rights of access and
cancellation":
 "1. [...].
2. The data controller will deny the exercise of the right
of cancellation in the terms and conditions provided in the Organic Law
15/1999, of December 13.” (The underlining is ours).

Referral that, as has already been said, must be understood to the current regulations, the RGPD
and the LOPDGDD. In turn, article 17 of the GDPR, "Right of deletion ("the
right to be forgotten»)”, provides:

"1. The interested party shall have the right to obtain without undue delay from the person in charge
of the treatment the deletion of personal data that concerns you, which
will be obliged to delete the personal data without undue delay when
one of the following circumstances occurs:
to)
[...]
d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed; [..]”

Article 17 of the GDPR is exhaustive by obliging the data controller to delete,
without undue delay, a personal data when, as it happens here, the treatment is
illegal, but, in any case, with the exception that the processing of the data is necessary
for any of the purposes detailed in section 3 of article 17 (letters a, to e).

It has been duly justified in Fundament V of this resolution that the
treatment of the claimant's NIF data carried out by VODAFONE linked to
a prepaid line violated the principle of legality because it was not covered by any
of the legal bases listed in article 6.1 of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

58/75

On the other hand, the reasons that the defendant gave to the claimant to justify not
delete the NIF data "without undue delay", were related to alleged
technical requirements of the product contracted by the third party with the NIF of the claimant,
circumstance that is not included among the exceptions to the application of article
17.1 that contemplates article 17.3 of the GDPR.

Compliance with the obligation that article 17.1 of the GDPR imposes on the controller
of the treatment -proceed without undue delay to the deletion of the data of the
interested party when there is any of the circumstances that are related therein- not
may be subordinated or made dependent on more exceptions than those provided for in the
paragraph 3 of article 17 of the GDPR. In no case in matters related to
the operation of the business of the controller, whether of a technical nature, such as
those that the defendant claimed in the messages that she addressed to the claimant, or otherwise
nature.

It is added to what has already been stated that when VODAFONE responded, denying it, to the
The claimant's first request to delete her NIF knew that the
treatment of this data could be illegal, since two days after that
first deletion request, the existence of a
possible fraud in contracting the prepaid line.

However, before the VODAFONE email of 02/03/2021, in which it denies the
suppression of the NIF -response email to another from the claimant dated 02/01/2021 in
the one who requested confirmation of the suppression of his NIF- the claimed was fully
aware that the treatment of the claimant's NIF that was carried out was illegal
linked to the disputed line, as its fraud department had already
cataloged as such the line. Despite this, the defendant insisted on responding to the
complainant that the NIF could not be deleted because the prepaid products could not be
be deactivated and it was necessary to wait for the card to expire.

VODAFONE deletes the claimant's NIF more than four months after the
first request and does so after learning that there was a claim against
her, as a result of the actions of transfer of the Sub-directorate of Inspection of this
Agency.

The conduct of VODAFONE, which did not attend, being appropriate, the right that the
Article 17 of the GDPR recognizes the claimant, constitute a clear violation
of that norm.

In its allegations, VODAFONE denies having violated article 17 of the GDPR.

The arguments that VODAFONE invokes in defense of the non-existence of the infringement
of article 17.1. of the GDPR consist, in essence, of two exceptions to the application
of article 17.1 provided for in article 17.3 of the GDPR and in the statement that the
entity did not keep the data of the DNI object of treatment "related" to the
"identity" of the claimant, but with the "identity" of the third party who intervened in the
hiring. In particular, it states that "Vodafone does not store this data (number of
DNI) related to the identity of the Claimant, but to the identity (name and
surname) of the Third Party. We refer to what has already been stated in the First Allegation to
avoid unnecessary repetitions. “Vodafone had not associated with the identity of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

59/75

Claimant, but with that of the Third Party, that is, who registered the prepaid card, which
it had also been marked as "fraud". (The underlining is ours)

Starting with this last consideration, it should be indicated that it contains affirmations
contradictory. As stated in Fundamento V, following the RAE, the term
"identity" is the "set of characteristics of an individual or a community that
characterize them in front of the others”. In turn, according to Organic Law 4/2015, the
The identity of a Spanish citizen is accredited through the DNI, "the only document with
sufficient value by itself for the accreditation, for all purposes, of the identity and
the personal data of its owner”. And, according to Royal Decree 1553/2005 "To each
National Identity Document, you will be assigned a personal number that will have the
consideration of personal numerical identifier of a general nature.”

It therefore turns out that, by incorporating VODAFONE into its systems the data of the DNI/NIF of
the claimant was fully identified in the systems of the
claimed, and this regardless of whether or not VODAFONE associates it with a
customer number or the name and surname of the third party (B.B.B..) In turn, the
statement according to which he kept the NIF data of the claimant "related" to the
"identity (name and surname) of the Third Party". The name and surnames do not identify
fully to the third. The identity of the third party would be effectively registered in their
systems if you had your NIF (not just your name and surname), data that VODAFONE does not
collected and has not registered either. Therefore, when it comes to identifying the customer
the decisive thing is the DNI/NIF data.

With regard to the exceptions to the application of article 17.1 of the GDPR that,
judgment of the defendant, would operate in this case, sections b) and e) of article 17.3 of the
GDPR, the following is indicated

In relation to section b) of article 17.3. of the GDPR - compliance with a
legal obligation that requires data processing that is imposed by the
law of the Member States and applies to the controller - it is enough
say that it is precisely Law 25/2007, in particular its article 9, which refers to the
application of the personal data protection regulations: "The
responsible for data processing will deny the exercise of the right to
cancellation under the terms and conditions set forth in Organic Law 15/1999, of
December 13th." (The underlining is ours)

So it is Law 25/2007, connected with article 17.3.b) of the GDPR, in which
that VODAFONE seeks to exempt the application of article 17.1.d) of the GDPR, which
expressly obliges the operator to observe the provisions of the GDPR when
respond to requests for the deletion of the data that is processed with
occasion of its application. And, in turn, in accordance with article 17.1.d) of the GDPR
The deletion of those personal data whose treatment is illegal will proceed.

Nor is it acceptable as a exception to the application of article 17.1.d) of the GDPR and,
therefore, as a reason to justify the refusal to delete the data
of the NIF, the hypothesis of letter e) of article 17.3: that the treatment of the data was
necessary “for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

60/75

Consideration that seems obvious since the claims that VODAFONE could
direct in front of their managers or sub-managers of treatment, or even in front of the
third, they do not need for their justification or proof to continue carrying out a
treatment of the NIF of the claimant linked to the prepaid line, treatment that is
illicit. Even more so if one takes into account the rigor with which the CJEU interprets the term
"necessary", referring to a treatment because it rejects that "necessary" can be equated
convenient or suitable.

Based on the foregoing, this resolution concludes that VODAFONE violated article 17
of the GDPR by not proceeding to the deletion of the NIF of the claimant despite being forced to
to it in accordance with section 1.d) of that provision.

The infringement of article 17 of the GDPR that is attributed to the defendant is
typified in article 83.5.b) of the GDPR which indicates:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:
to) (...)
b) the rights of the interested parties in accordance with articles 12 to 22;”

The LOPDGDD qualifies in its article 72.1.k) as a very serious infraction "The
impediment or obstruction (...) of the exercise of the rights established in the
articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.” The limitation period for these
violations is three years.

VIII

Sanction of a fine: Determination of the amount

Article 58.2 of the GDPR attributes various powers to the control authorities
corrective measures, among which the precept mentions, section i), the imposition of a fine
administration in accordance with article 83 of the GDPR.

In this resolution it is agreed to penalize VODAFONE for the two violations of the
article 6.1 of the GDPR and the infringement of article 17 of the GDPR with separate fines
administrative.

In determining its amount, the provisions of the articles must be taken into account.
83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR:

In accordance with article 83.1 "Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of
administrative fines under this article for breaches of the
this Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

Article 83.2 establishes: "Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the
circumstances of each individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

61/75

referred to in article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding the tax
of an administrative fine and its amount in each individual case will be
due account:
a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well as
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;
b) intentionality or negligence in the infraction;
c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the interested parties;
d) the degree of responsibility of the controller or processor,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;
e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;
f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;
g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;
h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;
i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;
j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and
k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
"Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:
"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:
a) The continuing nature of the offence.
b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.
c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.
d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.
e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.
f) The affectation of the rights of minors.
g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

IX

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

62/75

Determination of the amount of the fine. Violation of article 6.1. GDPR:
Registration of a prepaid mobile line associated with the NIF of the claimant.

Regarding the violation of article 6.1. of the GDPR that has been analyzed in the
Basis V of this resolution, we consider that they concur as aggravating circumstances
the circumstances listed below, which are a manifestation of a
greater unlawfulness of the conduct or greater culpability:

1. Article 83.2.a): the duration of the infringement taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operation, as well as the number of interested parties
affected and the level of damages suffered.

The violation of article 6.1 of the GDPR to which we refer participates in the
nature of the so-called permanent infringements, in which their consummation
is projected in time beyond the initial event and extends, violating the
data protection regulations during the entire period of time in which the data
is subject to treatment. Regarding the characterization of the infringements of this
nature have been pronounced, by way of example, the judgments of the Court
National of 09/16/2008 (Rec.488/2006) and of the Supreme Court of 04/17/2002 (Rec.
466/2000)

In this particular case, the infringing conduct began on 11/17/2020, the date on which
that the defendant registered a prepaid line linked to the claimant's NIF, and
terminated the illicit treatment on 05/27/2021, seven months after the start of the
infringement.

VODAFONE has rejected the application of this aggravating circumstance (see Sixth Background,
allegations to the initiation agreement). The reasons on which the defendant bases its
refusal and the reasons why, in his opinion, this aggravating circumstance could not be admitted, are,
in summary, the following:

It argues that the sentences that the AEPD has cited -SAN of 09/16/2008 and of the T.S.
of 04/17/2002- refer to assumptions of fact whose nature is completely
different from the one proposed here and do not deal with the protection of personal data.
staff.

In response to what is alleged, it is enough to indicate that with the aforementioned sentences it has not been
intended to illustrate any specific data protection issue but to corroborate,
through the doctrine of the A.N. and the jurisprudence of the T.S., the concept of infringement
permanent, since the permanent nature of the offense is connected in this case with
its "duration", which is one of the factors to take into account to appreciate the
concurrences of the circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the GDPR.

VODAFONE has also argued that, in accordance with the Sole Additional Provision and the
Article 5 of Law 25/2007, was obliged to treat and preserve "the number
corresponding to the identification document”.

Regarding that statement of the defendant, it should be noted that it is disproved
tenor of the exhibition that with respect to the infraction that concerns us is made in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

63/75

Legal Foundation V of this resolution, since the treatment carried out was not
protected by the precepts alleged to the contrary.

The defendant has also invoked that, in the present case, there is only one affected person, the
claimant, and that the generation of damages has not been proven.

Ignoring the question of damages, which are evident if we
we look only at the multitude of steps that the claimant has been forced to take
carry out in the event of a violation of your fundamental right to data protection
by VODAFONE, it must be remembered that, according to article 83.2.a) of the GDPR,
The "duration of the infringement" will be assessed taking into account not only the number of
interested parties affected and the damages caused, but also the nature,
scope or purpose of the processing operation in question. and the look
truly relevant with a view to the application of this circumstance is not -as
maintains the defendant - that there is only one affected, but the purpose pursued by the
treatment operation provided for in the Sole Additional Provision of Law 25/2007:
establish instruments to control the use of equipment for criminal purposes
of mobile telephony acquired through the prepaid modality (Preamble of the Law
25/2007).

With regard to VODAFONE's objection that in the matter under examination there is only one
affected -the claimant- should be brought up, since they distort this objection of the
claimed and are applicable to the factual assumption raised, the considerations that,
in relation to article 83.2.a) of the GDPR, make Guidelines 4/2022 of the Committee
European Data Protection Agency (CEPD) for the calculation of administrative fines
pursuant to the GDPR, approved for public consultation on 05/12/2022.

The Guidelines (the original version, in English, deals with this issue in the
paragraph 54 point 4) refer to "the number of specific interested parties, but also
potentially affected
 
 ”. In this sense, they specify that the greater the number
of stakeholders involved, the more weight may be attributed to this factor by the authority of
control. That, in many cases, it can also be considered that the offense adopts
«systemic» connotations and, therefore, can affect, even in different
moments, to other interested parties who have not submitted claims or reports to
the supervisory authority. That the supervisory authority may, depending on the
circumstances of the case, consider the relationship between the number of interested
affected and the total number of stakeholders in that context (for example, the number of
citizens, customers or employees) in order to assess whether the infringement is of a
systemic and that the greater the number of stakeholders involved, the more weight
The supervisory authority may attribute to this factor.

2. Circumstance of article 83.2.d), "the degree of responsibility of the person responsible or
of the person in charge of the treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures
that they have applied by virtue of articles 25 and 32;”

The principle of proactivity provided for in article 5.2. of the GDPR means transferring to the
responsible for the treatment the obligation not only to comply with the regulations, but also
that of being able to demonstrate its compliance. Among the mechanisms that the GDPR
contemplated to achieve this are those provided for in article 25, "protection of
data from design”, according to which the controller must apply “both in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

64/75

time of determining the means of treatment as at the time of the
treatment" technical and organizational measures that guarantee that it makes an effective
application of the principles of the RGPD on the occasion of the treatments that it carries out.

The exposition that has been made in this resolution on the protocol that VODAFONE
continues to verify that in the processing of personal data carried out in
application of Law 25/2007, the principles of data protection are complied with,
evidence that it had not applied any measure that meets the provisions of the
Article 25 of the GDPR, which is why the existence of the circumstance of the
Article 83.2.d) as an aggravating circumstance

The measures that VODAFONE has been applying to comply with the legality principle
regarding the personal data that is collected during the contracting of a
prepaid card consist solely of the imposition of contractual obligations
to those in charge and sub-processors, in particular, the obligation to
identify the acquirer of the smart card by means of an original document. No
However, even this last requirement was not included in the contract that the distributor
celebrated with the point of sale that has intervened in the contracting,
***ESTABLISHMENT.1.

The defendant has not established any mechanism that allows it to verify that the
contractual obligations assumed by subjects such as the distributor and the point of
sale are met. VODAFONE has not alleged, let alone proven, that they are
measures to verify compliance with these contractual obligations.
It is not necessarily about keeping the copy of the DNI; but the truth is that neither
has not even planned to carry out checks through audits or other systems
verification of the effective compliance made by the points of sale of the
obligations imposed in the contract regarding the identification protocol of the
purchaser of prepaid services.

The reality is, as has been exposed when analyzing this infraction,
that VODAFONE's security policy consists of taking for granted, by the sole
reason that this is stipulated in the contracts, that in the contracting of a
smart card, and despite the interest that the point of sale has in closing the
transaction, the display of the document is collected from the prepaid card applicant
identification, the applicant displays it and the point of sale verifies that the data
provided by the client coincide with those that appear in the original document
exhibited. Nothing more, since it has not designed measures to verify compliance
real and effective that the sub-responsible for treatment of the obligations
incorporated into the different contracts

VODAFONE has rejected the application as an aggravating circumstance,
article 83.2.d).

The arguments that the defendant has invoked are distorted by the
considerations that are made regarding this infraction in Fundament V of
this resolution, which corroborate that in no case was it designed, in order to comply
the principles that govern the right to data protection, none of the
measures referred to in article 25 of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

65/75

3. Circumstance of article 83.2.e) "Any previous infringement committed by the
responsible or in charge of treatment.”

In a first approach to this provision of the GDPR that refers to "all
previous infraction" committed, it is appreciated that the norm does not make any delimitation or
delimitation of the set of offenses committed by a person responsible or
person in charge of treatment, either due to the legal nature of the infringement,
by the precept violated, or by the time elapsed since its commission or from the
imposition of the sanction.

However, a systematic interpretation refers us to recital 148 of the GDPR
which includes some guidelines "In order to reinforce the application of the rules of this
Regulation [...]" and indicates in this regard that "However, special attention must be paid to
attention to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, to its nature
intentional [...] or any pertinent infraction [...]”.

Recital 148 does introduce a delimitation in the group formed by the
totality of the infractions committed by a person in charge or in charge of
treatment, as it urges special attention to be paid to any “relevant” infringement.
Term that responds to the translation of the adjective “relevant”, which appears in the text
original in English, and that means pertinent or relevant.

We believe that, in accordance with section e) of article 83.2. of the GDPR, in the
determination of the amount of the sanction of administrative fine may not fail to
assess all those previous infractions of the person in charge or of the person in charge of
treatment that are pertinent or relevant in order to gauge the unlawfulness of
the conduct being evaluated or the guilt of the offending subject. In addition, a
correct interpretation of the provision of article 83.2.e) GDPR cannot ignore the
purpose pursued by the rule: decide the amount of the fine
administration, in the individual case raised, always considering that the sanction
be proportional, effective and dissuasive.

In this sense, they were cited in the opening agreement and in the resolution proposal, and
again, the resolutions issued by the AEPD in the following
sanctioning procedures processed against the defendant:

i.PS/00193/2021. Resolution issued on September 9, 2021 in which the
a penalty of 40,000 euros. The facts related to the treatment of the NIF of the
claimant without legitimacy linked to the contracting of two mobile lines and a pack
of terminals.

ii.PS/00186/2020. Resolution issued on August 31, 2020 in which the
a penalty of 60,000 euros. The facts related to the treatment of the data
of the claimant without legitimacy linked to the contracting of a fixed line, a line
mobile, internet and television.

iii. PS/00009/2020. Resolution issued on July 28, 2020 imposing a
fine of 48,000 euros. The facts related to the treatment of the data of the
claimant without legitimacy linked to the portability of a number and line registration
made by a third party.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

66/75

iv. PS/303/2020. Resolution issued on October 26, 2020 imposing a
fine of 36,000 euros. The facts related to the treatment of the data of the
claimant without legitimacy linked to the purchase of a mobile terminal and the registration of
a line with a commitment to stay made by a third party.

v. PS/348/2020. Resolution issued on November 6, 2020 imposing
a fine of 42,000 euros. The facts related to the treatment of the data of the
claimant without legitimacy linked to the portability of a number and line registration
made by a third party

VODAFONE's history of infractions in which there was a significant omission
of the diligence necessary to verify the identity of the person who communicates as data
own the data of a third party, affects the guilt and illegality of the
behavior that we now value.

In the procedures that are related and in the factual assumption that concerns us, the
omission of the appropriate diligence, aimed at identifying the person providing
as your personal data of which you are not the owner, allowed identity fraud
and determined that the defendant processed the personal data of the affected party without
law, violating article 5.1.a) in relation to article 6.1. GDPR.

This history of non-compliance confirms that, when the events occurred in the
that the current violation of article 6.1 is specified. GDPR, the defendant knew
perfectly the deficiencies of its privacy policy to
comply with the obligations imposed by the GDPR in relation to the principle of legality and
the principle of proactivity. The sanctioning resolutions mentioned
should have been an additional reason to review the protocols you have
established to verify the identity of clients on the occasion of contracting
of the products or services that it sells.

VODAFONE opposes the application of this aggravating circumstance. He states that he "disagrees" with
what the AEPD has understood by "pertinent antecedents" and adds that the
related procedures in the initiation agreement (which were reiterated in the proposal
resolution) dealt with cases other than the one at hand, given that in
they, the third parties that posed as the claimants, contracted products “through
names of the claimants" and the latter received the corresponding invoices,
Which hasn't happened now.

However, VODAFONE's allegation regarding the application of this aggravating circumstance
must also be rejected. These details are enough:

The first, that, as indicated in relation to this circumstance - section e)
of article 83.2 GDPR - the literalness of the precept - "Any previous infringement committed
by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment"- is extraordinarily broad and does not
makes no comment, so a literal interpretation would have led to
frame in it any infringement of the data protection regulations by the
that the defendant had been penalized.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

67/75

The AEPD has interpreted this provision restrictively and has restricted its
application limiting it to those infractions that suppose a "preceding
pertinent” in relation to the offense being prosecuted. But it is one thing to restrict the
scope of the circumstance of article 83.2.e) on the basis of an interpretation
systematic of that norm and another very different one what tries VODAFONE. Claim
that it cannot rely on the aforementioned provision.

Judging by their statements, what VODAFONE seeks is that the application of
this circumstance is subordinated to the existence of a "factual identity" of the
infractions; identity between the facts on which the infractions for which
that was sanctioned in the past and the facts that concern us. However, as
has explained, the antecedents that have been mentioned are "pertinent" in a
assumption like the one presented here. In the precedents cited, there had been no
adopted measures aimed at verifying the identity of the person who
contract. Measures to ensure that the processing of personal data was lawful and
that would allow it to demonstrate that it was obliged to adopt in accordance with the articles
5.2, 24 and 25 of the GDPR.

4. Circumstance of article 83.2.g) "the categories of personal data
affected by the infringement.

The RAE dictionary defines the term "category" as "each of the classes or
divisions established when classifying something”. Reading article 83.2.g) of the GDPR gives us
refers, initially, -making a literal and strict interpretation of the norm- to the
heading of article 9 of the GDPR, "Treatment of special categories of data
personal data”, thus concluding that the GDPR classifies personal data, only,
in specially protected and the rest.

A systematic and teleological interpretation of article 83.2.g) of the GDPR connects this
precept with other classifications offered by the text of the GDPR that, in addition,
respond better to the purpose pursued by the standard: graduating in the individual case the
administrative fine that must be imposed respecting in any case the principles of
proportionality and effectiveness.

In this sense, recitals 51 and 75 of the GDPR distinguish a group of data
personal data that, by their nature, are particularly sensitive because of the
significant risk that they may entail, in the context of their treatment, for
fundamental rights and freedoms. The common denominator of all of them is that their
treatment involves a significant risk to the rights and freedoms
fundamental since it can cause physical, material or
immaterial.

This group or category of particularly sensitive data includes data
specially protected rights regulated by article 9 of the GDPR - recital 51 of the
GDPR- and, in addition, many other data not regulated in that precept. The recital
75 mentions in detail the personal data whose processing may entail a
risk, of variable severity and probability, to the rights and freedoms of
natural persons as a consequence of the fact that they can cause damages
physical, material or immaterial. Among them, he mentions those whose treatment
“may give rise to problems of discrimination, identity theft or fraud,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

68/75

financial loss, damage to reputation, loss of data confidentiality
subject to professional secrecy, unauthorized reversal of pseudonymization or
any other significant economic or social harm;” (The underlining is ours)

Through the numerical identifier of the DNI together with the verification character
corresponding to the tax identification number, the natural person is identified
unquestionably. This quality of the DNI/NIF number makes it a data
particularly sensitive insofar as, if the processing of this data is not
accompanied by the necessary technical and organizational measures to ensure that
whoever identifies with it is really its owner, a third party can supplant the
identity of a natural person with total ease, or, in other words, it can
cause identity fraud, with the risks that this entails for privacy,
the honor and patrimony of the supplanted.

It is estimated that, in this case, the unlawful treatment that the defendant has carried out falls
on a particularly sensitive piece of information: the DNI/NIF of the claimant. That data, by itself
alone, allowed his identification, which affects the seriousness of the behavior of
VODAFONE must appreciate the concurrence as an aggravating circumstance of the
circumstance of section g) of article 83.2. GDPR.

VODAFONE rejects the application of this aggravating circumstance, justifying that "it has not
there has been an identity theft”; in which the claimant's NIF "was not exposed
by Vodafone, but it appears published in the BOE" and that it was not her, the entity
claimed, who provided the third party with that information, but already had it in their possession.

Also in that case the defendant's arguments must be rejected:

Regarding the allegation that "there has not been an identity theft" it should be noted
that when recital 75 of the GDPR refers to the processing of data
“may give rise to problems of discrimination, identity theft or fraud,” not
You are using the terms usurpation and fraud in a legal technical sense, that is,
as behaviors that meet the requirements to be subsumed in a criminal offense
contemplated in the Spanish Penal Code.

Regarding VODAFONE's statement that there was no usurpation of
identity we understand that with it he is referring to the fact that the type of the
Article 401 of the Spanish Penal Code, which is true. However, the GDPR is a
standard applicable to all Member States of the Union whose legal systems
legal, except for the regulations of the E.U. that links them, they are disparate,
even more so when it comes to criminally typified conducts, for what seems
It is clear that the Community legislature did not use those expressions with the meaning
technical legal that the defendant wants to grant them.

In any case, it is recalled that recital 75 refers to usurpation "or" fraud and
that, as is proven, VODAFONE on several occasions described the conduct
that concerns us, and thus registered it in their systems, as a fraud.

On the other hand, it is irrelevant that the claimant's NIF appeared published in
the BOE, since this treatment had its legal basis in the need to comply with a
mission in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers. The publication in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

69/75

BOE of the claimant's data for that specific purpose does not legitimize the
subsequent processing of that data by the third party that contracted with VODAFONE,
nor even less can it justify the treatment carried out by the defendant herself.

5. Circumstance of article 83.2.k) GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b)
LOPDGDD: The evident link between the business activity of the defendant and the
processing of personal data.

The defendant, in the development of its own activity, needs to treat
customary data of a personal nature and this fact affects the diligence that results
required in compliance with the principles that govern the processing of personal data.
personal character and on the quality and effectiveness of the technical and organizational measures
that must be implemented to guarantee respect for this right
of both its clients and third parties.

Extenuating circumstances that VODAFONE invokes:

The mitigations whose application is requested regarding this infraction are:
(i) The "absence of intentionality or negligence", article 83.2 b) of the GDPR.
(ii) the "cooperation with the supervisory authority in responding to the transfer of the
claim and having provided the requested information”, article 83.2 f) of the GDPR.

None of the mitigations invoked can be admitted.

(i) Regarding the alleged non-existence of intentionality or negligence, we refer
to the considerations made in Fundamental V about the concurrence of the
element of guilt, materialized in a serious lack of diligence.

(ii) Regarding the second mitigation, it is indicated that article 83.2.f) of the GDPR is
refers to the “degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedy the breach and mitigate the potential adverse effects of the breach;” (he
underlining is ours) and the response of the defendant to the information requirement of
the Inspection Sub-directorate did not meet these purposes, so it is not
framed in that mitigation.

In view of the foregoing, it is agreed to impose VODAFONE for the infringement
of article 6.1. of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a), specified in having given
registration of a prepaid line associated with the NIF of the claimant, a fine of €70,000.

X

Determination of the amount of the fine. Infringement of article 17 of the GDPR:

Regarding the conduct contrary to the RGPD that has been analyzed in the Foundation
VII of this resolution, the concurrence of the following circumstances that
affect the liability payable to the claimant and that are a manifestation of a
greater illegality of his conduct or greater guilt:

1.Article 83.2.a): It has special relevance, and, therefore, the consequent reflection in the
amount of the fine to be imposed, the seriousness of the conduct in which

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

70/75

this infraction is specified in attention to the nature and purpose of the operation of
treatment.

In the case examined, the "nature" of the operation is especially relevant.
of treatment because, due to the conduct of VODAFONE, the claimant has been
without legal basis of one of the mechanisms that the RGPD grants you to
make effective and guarantee your right to the protection of personal data. fits
add that the defendant repeated her conduct despite the fact that she had elements of
judgment more than sufficient to qualify the treatment of personal data of the
claimant linked to the registration of the prepaid line as a fraud, which forced him to
proceed to delete the data. Despite being aware of this circumstance, he deprived the
claimant of the right granted by the GDPR and the response to deny the right
did not take into account the provisions of Article 17 of the GDPR as it claimed
as reason, exclusively, technical reasons related to the impossibility of
cancel a prepaid line that in no way justify the refusal.

The foregoing considerations on the "nature" of the violation of Article 17
of the GDPR for which VODAFONE is held responsible are in line with the
criterion that follows the Guidelines 4/2022, on the calculation of fines
pursuant to the GDPR, prepared by the CEPD and approved for its
public consultation. Paragraph 54.a) of the original English version indicates that
respect that the supervisory authority may review the interest that the provision
infringed purports to protect and the place that provision occupies in the legal framework
of the protection of personal data. In addition, the supervisory authority may take into account
account the degree to which the infringement has impeded the effective application of the
disposition and the fulfillment of the objective that it was intended to protect.

The "purpose" of the processing operation, which affects the severity of the
infringement, is connected to VODAFONE's response in which it denied the
claimant the right of deletion; response that he reiterated and that was clear
contradiction with article 17 of the RGPD and that was issued by the department of
data protection of the operator, to whose email address the claimant addressed
your deletion request. To this same address and department should be addressed the
VODAFONE customers, which is at the time the largest telephone operator in the country
by the number of clients, since it provides service to more than twenty percent of the
domestic market users. This demonstrates the scope of the behavior of
VODAFONE in which the alleged infringement materializes, it being irrelevant that the
claimant has been a single person.

VODAFONE rejects the application of this aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.a) of the GDPR and
says:

 "The Agency blames Vodafone for an "absolute ignorance of the content of the
right" of suppression, ignoring, in the opinion of this Agency, "what are the
obligations that derive for it from article 17 of the GDPR".
That being said, with all due respect, we disagree with the character
generalized subjective assessment of the Agency. As we have shown in
the Fifth Allegation, to which we refer, although the Agency ends
understanding that Vodafone has infringed article 17 of the GDPR, there are
arguments to defend that it has acted in accordance with the provisions
in article 17 of the GDPR:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

71/75

a) You have not treated the DNI number illegally.
b) In any case, it was obliged by law to keep said data and, in addition,
it was necessary for the formulation, exercise or defense of
claims.”

The arguments put forward by VODAFONE are in line with the refusal of the
entity to recognize that the treatment of the NIF of the claimant linked to the registration of the
prepaid line was illegal. We refer to the considerations included in the
Basis V of this resolution regarding the violation of article 6.1 by the
Registration of the prepaid line linked to the NIF of the affected party.

About the obligation alleged by VODAFONE to keep personal data
treated within the framework of Law 25/2007 in accordance with its article 5, we must reiterate what
exposed in Fundament V, in the sense that all the treatments that are
carried out under the aforementioned law must respect the regulations for the protection of
data. Thus, in no case could the defendant be bound by virtue of the
Article 5 of Law 25/2007 to keep personal data whose treatment entails
a breach of the GDPR. But, what's more, article 9 of Law 25/2007 says
expressly that the data controller will deny the exercise
of the right of cancellation in the terms and conditions provided in the GDPR, which
which directly refers us to article 17.1 of the GDPR.

2. Article 83.2.b): “intentionality or negligence in the offence”. It is outside of
doubt the very serious lack of diligence of the defendant, who did not comply with the deletion
of the NIF data requested by the claimant despite being obliged to do so in accordance with the
article 17.1.d) GDPR.

We are facing a very serious lack of diligence and this is demonstrated by the fact that VODAFONE
would have denied the suppression of the NIF on the two occasions that the claimant requested it.
requested, despite the fact that the deletion was appropriate in light of the provision of article
17 of the GDPR and that the operator was fully aware then that the
personal data of the defendant had been used in a fraudulent contracting.

The arguments with which VODAFONE justified its decision to reject the deletion
of the NIF data -exposed in the letters that he addressed to the claimant on 01/26/2021 and
02/03/2021 and that he reiterated, months later, in the letter addressed to the AEPD in July
2021 in response to the information request prior to the admission for processing of the
claim - reveal a total ignorance of the applicable regulations -particularly
of the GDPR and Law 25/2007- and therefore an absolute lack of diligence in the
compliance with the obligations imposed by the GDPR.

VODAFONE rejects the application of this aggravating circumstance and alleges in such
sense:

"The Agency describes Vodafone's lack of diligence as "very serious" for not
having responded to "the deletion of the NIF data requested by the claimant despite
be obliged to do so in accordance with article 17.1 d) GDPR".

Although it is considered that the treatment of the DNI number provided by the
third party is unlawful (quod non), the obligation to

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

72/75

conservation imposed by Law 25/2007 which, in the opinion of this party, makes
that the infringement cannot be classified as "gross negligence".

In response to this allegation, we refer to the consideration made in point 1
precedent: in essence, that the data processing carried out under the Law
25/2007 is subject to data protection regulations and that article 9 of that
law refers to article 17 of the GDPR.

3.Article 83.2.k) GDPR in relation to article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD: The obvious
link between the business activity of the defendant and data processing
personal, both clients and third parties, required him to have implemented the
adequate measures to correctly address the subjective rights that the GDPR
granted in articles 15 to 22.

Attention to the right of deletion (article 17) requires that the response that the
claimed offer is adjusted to law. Failure to comply with the obligations
derive for it from article 17 is especially serious if it is assessed that we are facing
an entity for which the treatment of
Personal data. Especially if the number of customers is taken into account.

Attenuating. VODAFONE requests that the following circumstances be appreciated
mitigating:
(i) "cooperation with the supervisory authority in responding to the transfer of the
claim and having provided the requested information”, article 83.2 f) of the GDPR.
(ii) The "absence of benefits obtained through the infringement", article 83.2 k)
of the GDPR and 76.2 c) of the LOPDGDD.

None of the mitigations invoked can be admitted.

(i) Article 83.2.f) of the GDPR refers to the "degree of cooperation with the authority of
control in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible effects
adverse effects of the offence;”. The respondent's response to the information request
of the Sub-directorate of Inspection did not meet these purposes, so it is not
framed in that mitigation.

(ii) On the application of article 76.2.c) of the LOPDGDD, in connection with article
83.2.k), non-existence of benefits obtained, it should be noted that such circumstance only
it can operate as an aggravating circumstance and in no case as a mitigation.

Article 83.2.k) of the GDPR refers to "any other aggravating or mitigating factor
applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained or the
losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through the breach.” and the article
76.2c) of the LOPDGDD says that “2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 may also be taken into account: [..] c) The benefits
obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.” Both provisions
mentioned as a factor that can be taken into account in grading the sanction
the "benefits" obtained, but not the "absence" of these, which is what VODAFONE
alleges.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

73/75

In addition, in accordance with article 83.1 of the GDPR, the imposition of fine sanctions
is governed by the following principles: they must be individualized for each
particular case, be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The admission that it operates
as a mitigation, the absence of benefits is contrary to the spirit of article 83.1
of the GDPR and the principles governing the determination of the amount of the
fine penalty. If, as a result of the commission of a violation of the GDPR, it is classified as
mitigating the non-existence of benefits, partially annuls the dissuasive purpose that
complies through sanction. Even more so when, as occurs with the infringement of the
Article 17 of the GDPR at hand, we are dealing with infringing conduct that does not
has no relationship of any kind with obtaining profits, so there would be no
no connection between the mitigation applied and the circumstances surrounding
the infringing conduct, so that the absence of benefits could not be an exponent
of greater or less illegality or guilt. Accept the VODAFONE thesis
In a case like the one at hand, it would mean introducing an artificial reduction in the
sanction that truly proceeds to be imposed; which results from applying the
circumstances of article 83.2 GDPR that must be assessed.

The Administrative Litigation Chamber of the National Court has warned that the
fact that in a specific case not all the elements that
constitute a circumstance modifying liability that, by its nature,
has an aggravating nature, cannot lead to the conclusion that said circumstance is applicable
as a mitigation. The pronouncement made by the National Court in its
SAN of 05/05/2021 (Rec. 1437/2020) -even though that resolution is seen on the
circumstance of section e) of article 83.2. of the GDPR, the commission of infringements
above- can be extrapolated to the question raised, the claim of the defendant of
that the "absence" of benefits be accepted as mitigating, being that both the
GDPR and LOPDGDD refer only to "the benefits obtained":

"Considers, on the other hand, that the non-commission should be considered as mitigating
from a previous violation. Well, article 83.2 of the GDPR establishes that
must be taken into account for the imposition of the administrative fine, among
others, the circumstance "e) any previous infringement committed by the person responsible or
the person in charge of the treatment". This is an aggravating circumstance, the fact
The fact that the budget for its application does not meet implies that it cannot be
taken into consideration, but does not imply or allow, as the plaintiff claims,
its application as a mitigation”;

In view of the foregoing, it is agreed to impose on the defendant for the infringement
of article 17 of the GDPR, typified in its article 83.5.b), an administrative fine for
an amount of €100,000.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DECLARING the termination of the disciplinary procedure regarding the
violation of article 15 of the GDPR, in accordance with the provisions of article
85 of the LPACAP.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

74/75

SECOND: Regarding the infringement of article 6.1 of the GDPR derived from having
treated without legal basis the NIF of the claimant to consult a solvency file,
AGREE on the FILE of the open disciplinary procedure against VODAFONE
ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, having been accredited in the file
that it is not responsible for that infringing conduct that was attributed to it in the agreement of
initiation of this procedure, PS/00281/2021.

THIRD: IMPOSE VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a
violation of article 6.1. of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR,
materialized in having registered a prepaid line associated with the NIF of the claimant,
an administrative fine of €70,000 (seventy thousand euros).

FOURTH: IMPOSE VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for a
infringement of article 17 of the GDPR typified in article 83.5.b) of the GDPR, a
administrative fine of €100,000 (one hundred thousand euros).

FIFTH: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

SIXTH: Warn the sanctioned entity that it must make the sanction effective
imposed once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the
provided in art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative Office of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), in the
voluntary payment term established in art. 68 of the General Regulation of
Collection, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to the
art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17, by entering it, indicating the NIF
of the sanctioned party and the number of the procedure that appears in the heading of this
document, in the restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will be collected in the period
executive.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

75/75

day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

