1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00014/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 14, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against TELEFONICA MOVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

The reasons on which the claim is based are the portability of the telephone line
***TELÉFONO.1 of which he is the owner, to the company TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA,
S.A.U. without your consent.

The telephone service until that day was provided by YOIGO, who according to the
claimant transfers his personal data without his authorization to the company TELEFÓNICA
MOBILE SPAIN, S.A.U. and it executes the action by changing the ownership of the
line producing the loss of said line.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant / of the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the investigative actions carried out, it is verified

the following facts:

Within file E/10113/2018, the claim is transferred to
TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U. and XFERA MÓVILES, S.A. (YOIGO) with
notification date of December 17, 2018 and December 27, 2018
respectively, requesting to submit a report on the causes that have motivated the
incident that gave rise to the claim, and on the measures adopted to avoid
similar incidents to occur.

TELEFÓNICA MÓVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U. (hereinafter the claimed) presents
statement of allegations stating that the number ***TELÉFONO.1 was imported to
the one claimed from YOIGO on 11/05/2018 at 02:00 a.m.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

It points out that in cases of line portability, the agent must transfer the
call to the mobile portability verifying entity prior to the
insertion of the portability request that triggers the Technical Specification
approved by the National Markets and Competition Commission (hereinafter
CNMC) for the change of operator, but due to a specific failure of the agent that
processed the discharge in the service, the insertion of portability was carried out prior to
verification by a third party contrary to what is dictated in the standard.

The respondent provides the registration request recordings for portability and the

Verbal consent verification call by third party.

The respondent adds that the applicant for discharge requested that the
verification call after the request and that once the
verification, three SMS were sent to the owner of the line in order to inform and offer
the possibility of canceling said operation.

The mobile portability operation implemented in said operator contemplates
in the general portability procedure, the sending of a series of informative SMS
to the telephone number that is going to be ported in which the different
steps through which the request made passes, but does not provide accreditation of shipments
made to this line.

The respondent also alleges that she had no record of any claim
until September 18, 2019; date on which the Arbitration Board of
***LOCATION.1 submits to this Company a claim filed in
relation to this process at the end of November 2018, practically a year
after the claimed events took place. The arbitration hearing has
held on October 10, 2019 and the claim is pending
Receive notification of the arbitration award that is issued in order to comply with its
contents.

The requested operator concludes its allegations by stating that in the
Currently the ownership of the line belongs to the applicant for portability, not to the
claimant.

And, among others, attach the following documents.
- Recording of the telephone conversation of the discharge dated October 31,

2018

- Call recording verification of verbal consent of the

portability dated November 1, 2018.

- Copy of the summons to the arbitration hearing
-

Transfer of claim

THIRD: On February 4, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations on February 24, 2020, in which, in summary, it stated that despite
having made the insertion of the portability request on October 31, 2018,
this does not take place effectively until November 5, 2019, having
had the claimant a period of six (6) days to contact the
reclaimed.

However, the claimant does not present any claim, nor request for
cancellation of the portability process, not recording any incident reported
by the claimant before said operator in relation to this request until the 18th of
September 2019, that is, almost a year after the events took place
denounced, object of the present claim and in the course of that time the
line was working correctly at all times and without any type of
incidence. additionally, the claimed party has the recording of the consent
of the claimant to carry her line dated November 2, 2018.

FIFTH: On March 3, 2020, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a period of practice tests, considering incorporated the
previous investigation actions, E/02655/2019.

SIXTH: On March 4, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that TELEFONICA MOVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A78923125, for an infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
of the RGPD, a fine of €75,000 (seventy-five thousand euros)

SEVENTH: On June 8, 2020, the respondent sends a letter expressing the
following manifestations

“We reiterate that we are facing a specific human error that does not

would affect the general procedure established by TME for these cases.

 
Likewise, we inform the AEPD that despite the fact that the
portability process had begun, later contacted the
CLAIMANT to request your consent.

As regards the presumed absence of consent for the
contracting, regulated in article 6.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 General of
Data Protection (hereinafter, “RGPD”), we must say that the aforementioned precept of
the RGPD does not require that the consent be presented in writing or with formalities
certain, but it does require that the consent of those affected be "unequivocal",
In this case, it corresponds to my client to prove that there is the
consent of the CLAIMANT. For such purposes, we refer to the recording of
date November 2, 2018 that is already in the possession of the AEPD as evidence
conclusive of the granting of said consent.

 
For all of the above and taking into account that our agent had committed
the punctual human error of starting the portability process prior to the
verification, from TME we consider that the CLAIMANT would have lent his

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

consent to carry out the portability of your line unequivocally days before
of the effective portability of the line.

 
Based on the foregoing, we insist that there has been no violation of article

6.1 of the RGPD for the treatment of data in terms of data protection.”

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The portability of the telephone line has been carried out
***TELEPHONE.1 of which the claimant is the owner, without his consent.

The telephone service until that day was provided by YOIGO, who is the one
According to the claimant, she transfers her personal data without her authorization to the company
claimed and this executes the action changing the ownership of the line producing
the loss of that line.

SECOND: The respondent entity alleges that although the portability request was
performed on October 31, 2018, it does not take place effectively until the day
November 5, 2019, so the claimant has had six (6) days to contact
in contact with the claimant.

However, the claimant does not present any claim, nor request for
cancellation of the portability process, until September 18, 2019, almost a
year later, and during all this time the line was working at all times
correctly and without any incident.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

Article 4.11 of the RGPD defines the "consent of the interested party" as any
manifestation of free, specific, informed and unequivocal will by which the
The interested party accepts, either by means of a declaration or a clear affirmative action, the
processing of personal data concerning you.

For its part, article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes that “The treatment will only be

lawful if at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of an applicable legal obligation
to the data controller;

d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person;

e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the person responsible for the
treatment;

f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.”

III

In the present case, the portability of the telephone line is denounced.
***TELEPHONE.1 of which the claimant is the owner, to the claimed operator because
this occurs without your consent.

Said operator recognizes a human error in the protocol followed to carry out
carry out the portability of the line object of this claim, since the agent must
transfer the call to the mobile portability verification entity
prior to inserting the port request that triggers the Specification
Technique approved by the National Commission of Markets and Competition (in
forward CNMC) for the change of operator, but due to a punctual failure of the agent
that processed the discharge in the service, the insertion of portability was carried out with
prior to verification by a third party contrary to what is dictated in the
rule.

From the locutions provided to this Agency by the respondent, it can be deduced
that in the registration recording of the portability maintained between the holder of the call and
the agent of the claimed, it is verified that the identification data of the
interlocutor with the agent of the operator do not coincide with those of the claimant and
line holder.

It should be noted at this point that although the respondent is aware that the
data of the high-portability applicant, are different from those of the owner of the line and
claimant, it is heard in the recording of the third-party verification that this
The verifier asks the agent of the claimed operator, if the applicant corresponds
with the name and surnames of the claimant that the verifier provides and to what
said agent answers “YES”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

From this fact, it follows that the defendant allows the verification
continue despite knowing that the data of the portability applicant does not coincide with
the data of the owner of the line provided by the verifier.

Thus, in accordance with the available evidence, things are
considers that the claimed operator has used the data of the claimant, to carry out
carry out the portability of the telephone line ***TELÉFONO.1 of which he is the owner, without his
consent for the hiring, nor any other cause that legitimizes the
treatment of your data.

The one claimed in response to the transfer of this claim provides
recordings from which it can be deduced that the portability of a line was carried out with the
knowledge that the interveners, that is, the requestor of the portability and the owner of
the line, they had different names and surnames, which triggered a portability not
requested by the owner of the line, that is, the claimant, and the loss of the
corresponding telephone line, thereby contravening what is established in Circular
1/2009 of the National Commission for Markets and Competition in its Annex I,
section “Processing of mobile portability requests” point 4, which indicates that the
The verifier will request the client to provide or confirm the personal data of the holder and
data relating to the line and operators.

Therefore, it is considered that the known facts are constitutive of a
infraction, attributable to the defendant, for an alleged violation of article 6 of the
RGPD, indicated in the foundation II.

IV

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established
Article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after three years.
of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

c) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
of legality of the treatment in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

v

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

SAW

This infraction can be sanctioned with a fine of €20,000,000 maximum or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

the following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case we are dealing with unintentional, but significant, negligent action.

you identified (article 83.2 b)

 Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, a number

identification, the line identifier), according to article 83.2 g)

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: IMPOSE TELEFONICA MOVILES ESPAÑA, S.A.U. with NIF
A78923125, for an infringement of article 6 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5
of the RGPD, a fine of €75,000 (seventy-five thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to TELEFONICA MOVILES ESPAÑA,
S.A.U.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
is between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to carry out the
voluntary payment will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
is between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the term of the
payment will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

