




Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of March 24, 2022
DSK comments on research data and Facebook fan pages







No.20220325
|
03/25/2022
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

At its 103rd conference, the Conference of Independent Federal and State Data Protection Authorities (DSK) passed a resolution to underline that and how scientific research and data protection are compatible.
Professor Ulrich Kelber, Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and in 2022 Chairman of the DSK, emphasizes that the General Data Protection Regulation actually favors research in many places: "We need scientific research that is based on our European values. The DSK therefore strongly supports the promotion and research of methods to process research data in such a way that the personal rights of citizens are protected as best as possible. The DSK supports the idea of creating a general research data law. We are on hand to advise on these and other measures.”
The DSK has also decided to inform the highest federal and state authorities under its supervision about the short report of the DSK task force on Facebook fan pages. She wants the authorities to deactivate her fan pages if those responsible cannot prove compliance with data protection law. Professor Kelber said: “Facebook fan pages cannot currently be operated in compliance with data protection. The task force set up by the DSK also came to the same conclusion. Authorities have a special responsibility here and have a role model function for the citizens.”
The documents on the DSK and the brief report of the Task Force Fanpages can be found shortly on the homepage of the data protection conference:
www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de
Contact:
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Graurheindorfer Straße 153
53117 Bonn Email: pressestelle@bfdi.bund.de









                Back to overview









