01.11.2021
Fine for GDPR violation

The National Supervisory Authority completed on 14.10.2021 an investigation at the operator IKEA ROMÂNIA SA, as a result of which a violation of the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) lit. b) and para. (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
As such, the operator was fined 4,948.80 lei (equivalent to 1,000 EURO).
The investigation was started as a result of the transmission by IKEA ROMÂNIA SA to the National Authority for the Supervision of the Processing of Personal Data of a notification of violation of the security of personal data.
Thus, according to the information in the notification form, IKEA ROMÂNIA SA organized a drawing contest in which the children of IKEA Family members participated. The participants uploaded their own drawings to the online platform dedicated to members, together with the participation forms, which contained their personal data as well as that of their parents/legal guardians, including their consent. In order to vote for the best drawing, the children's drawings were mistakenly published on the online platform, together with the personal data included in the participation forms.
At the time of the investigation, it was found that the security incident produced led to the unauthorized disclosure of personal data of IKEA Family members (name, surname and age of minor natural persons, name, surname, city, country, e-mail, membership number IKEA Family and the holographic signature of the parent/legal guardian), on the online platform dedicated to IKEA Family members in Romania, accessible only to them, for approximately 40 hours, with a number of 114 natural persons affected (half of them being minors) .
As such, it was found that this incident led to the compromise of data confidentiality, in violation of the provisions of art. 32 para. (1) lit. b) and para. (2) of the GDPR.
In this context, we underline the fact that, according to recital 38 of the RGPD "Children need a specific protection of their personal data, as they may be less aware of the risks, consequences, guarantees in question and their rights regarding the processing personal data. This specific protection should apply in particular to the use of children's personal data for marketing purposes or to create personality or user profiles and to the collection of children's personal data when using services directly offered to children."

Legal and communication department
A.N.S.P.D.C.P.