1/8

 Procedure No.: PS/00087/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated May 27, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. (alleged person in charge of the website ***URL.1 according to
declares the claimant) with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons in
on which the claim is based are as follows:

“The website ***URL.1 in the legal notice section lacks the data to be able to
exercise my rights. It does not indicate who is the owner of the web, nor to whom I must
Contact me to exercise my rights. I have written email and called by phone, but no
there is no answer.”

SECOND: Consulted on 08/06/2019 the web page ***URL.1 printing of
the privacy policy, its content being the following:

""PRIVACY POLICY

In compliance with the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999, of December 13, of
Protection of Personal Data (LOPD) the user is informed that all
Data you provide us will be incorporated into a file, created and maintained under
the responsibility of ***URL.1.

The confidentiality of your personal data will always be respected and will only be
used for the purpose of managing the services offered, responding to requests
that you raise, perform administrative tasks, as well as send information, technical,
commercial or advertising by ordinary or electronic means.

To exercise your rights of opposition, rectification or cancellation you must write to us
to the following email ***EMAIL.1 or call us at ***TELEPHONE.1”

THIRD: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, the
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being returned by address
incorrect on August 9, 2019.

FOURTH: The claim was admitted for processing on October 23, 2019.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FIFTH: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out preliminary investigation actions to clarify the
facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the
established in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD).

In accordance with the investigative actions carried out, a request for
information to the claimed, resulting in unsuccessful notification due to the absence of the
addressee.

SIXTH: The State Tax Administration Agency is requested to provide the fiscal domicile
of the claimed, being provided on March 26, 2020.

SEVENTH: Consulted on March 31, 2020 the page ***URL.1, it is verified
that the website is active and diligence is carried out in order to
incorporate into the file a screenshot of the main page and the contact form as well
as print cache as of February 19, 2020 of the legal notice page
hosted in the Google search engine (which corresponds to the impression collected in the
Background Second) since the link to the aforementioned legal notice does not work.

EIGHTH: On June 9, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the aforementioned
rule.

NINTH: Since the notification of the initiation agreement was unsuccessful,
proceeded to publish an announcement of notification in the Single Edictal Board of the Bulletin
State Official on June 5, 2020, in accordance with the provisions of the
Article 44 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

The respondent has not submitted a written statement of allegations, so the following applies:
indicated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the LPACAP, which in
its section f) establishes that, in case of not making allegations within the period established
on the content of the initiation agreement, it may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, reason why a Resolution is issued.

TENTH: On November 3, 2020, the website ***URL.1 is accessed with
in order to check the situation of the aforementioned page in relation to the
diligence carried out on March 23, 2020, capturing the application form
contact located on the main page as well as the result of the notice page
legal. A diligence is carried out to incorporate these verifications into the file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The ***URL.1 website has a contact form that collects the
name and email of interested users. electronic

SECOND: it had a privacy policy inserted in the legal notice that was not
was adapted to the regulations currently in force (namely, the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD), as stated in the impression collected in the second antecedent and
in the verification procedure referred to in the seventh antecedent.

THIRD: The checks carried out on November 3, 2020 show that
the situation has not changed with respect to the verification carried out on March 31
of 2020 and collected in the seventh antecedent.

FOURTH: The respondent has not presented arguments.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of article 13
of the RGPD, regarding the information that must be provided when the data is
obtained from the interested party, which establishes that:

"1. When personal data relating to him is obtained from an interested party, the
responsible for the treatment, at the time these are obtained, will provide
all the information indicated below:

a) the identity and contact details of the person in charge and, where appropriate, of their
representative;
b) the contact details of the data protection delegate, if applicable;

c) the purposes of the treatment to which the personal data is destined and the legal basis
of the treatment;

d) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter f), the interests
legitimate of the person in charge or of a third party;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

e) the recipients or the categories of recipients of the personal data, in their
case;

f) where appropriate, the intention of the controller to transfer personal data to a third party
country or international organization and the existence or absence of a decision to
adequacy of the Commission, or, in the case of transfers indicated in the
Articles 46 or 47 or Article 49, paragraph 1, second paragraph, reference to the
adequate or appropriate warranties and the means to obtain a copy of these or
to the fact that they have been borrowed.

2. In addition to the information mentioned in section 1, the person responsible for the
treatment will facilitate the interested party, at the moment in which the data is obtained
personal, the following information necessary to guarantee data processing
fair and transparent

a) the period during which the personal data will be kept or, when it is not
possible, the criteria used to determine this period;

b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to the
personal data relating to the interested party, and its rectification or deletion, or the limitation
of its treatment, or to oppose the treatment, as well as the right to portability
of the data;

c) when the treatment is based on article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), or article
9, paragraph 2, letter a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent in
any time, without affecting the legality of the treatment based on the
consent prior to its withdrawal;

d) the right to file a claim with a supervisory authority;

e) if the communication of personal data is a legal or contractual requirement, or a
necessary requirement to sign a contract, and if the interested party is obliged to provide
personal data and is informed of the possible consequences of not
provide such data;

f) the existence of automated decisions, including profiling, to which
referred to in article 22, sections 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, information
about applied logic, as well as the importance and consequences
provisions of said treatment for the interested party.

3. When the controller plans the further processing of data
personal data for a purpose other than that for which they were collected, you will provide the
interested party, prior to such further processing, information on that other purpose
and any additional information relevant under paragraph 2.

4. The provisions of sections 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply when and in the
to the extent that the interested party already has the information.”

The violation of this article is typified as an infringement in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
which he considers as such:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

[…] b) the rights of the interested parties under articles 12 to 22; […].”

For the purposes of the limitation period of the infraction, article 74 of the LOPDGDD
establishes:

“They are considered minor and the remaining infractions of a legal nature will prescribe after a year.
merely formal of the articles mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, the following:

[…] a) Failure to comply with the principle of transparency of information or the right
of information of the affected party for not providing all the information required by the articles
13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. […]”

III

In the present procedure, it is necessary to analyze the alleged illegality of the policy of
privacy of the website ***URL.1, motivated by its failure to update the provisions
in the GDPR. This analysis is performed assuming that, for reasons that could be
techniques, the part corresponding to the privacy policy is not found
available, as has been shown in the seventh antecedent and in the
done second.

Article 11 of the LOPDGDD, regarding "Transparency and information to the affected",
configures a system that allows compliance with the provisions of article 13 of the
GDPR. Thus, in its sections 1 and 2 it provides queque:

"1. When the personal data is obtained from the affected party, the person responsible for the
treatment may comply with the duty of information established in article
13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, providing the affected party with the basic information to
referred to in the following section and indicating an electronic address or other
medium that allows easy and immediate access to the rest of the information.
2. The basic information referred to in the previous section must contain, at
less:

a) The identity of the data controller and his representative, if any.

b) The purpose of the treatment.

c) The possibility of exercising the rights established in articles 15 to 22 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

If the data obtained from the affected party were to be processed for the preparation of
profiles, the basic information will also include this circumstance. In this
In this case, the affected party must be informed of their right to oppose the adoption of
automated individual decisions that produce legal effects on him or her
significantly affect in a similar way, when this right concurs in accordance
with the provisions of article 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

The proven facts show that the aforementioned page has a section
dedicated to the privacy policy inserted in the legal notice and that, although it offers a
summarized information on the purposes of the processing of personal data and
an indication regarding the exercise of rights (although outdated in its
terminology due to the fact that the privacy policy maintains its references to
Law 15/1999, of December 5, on the protection of personal data), does not inform
about the identity of the person in charge, information that is considered basic in the light
of the precept transcribed above.

Likewise, the described privacy policy must provide the rest of the
information to be provided to the interested party in accordance with article 13 of the
RGPD, for which you can make use of the layer system enabled by article 11
of the LOPDGDD, and must indicate, in this case, the way in which it allows access
immediately to the rest of said information.

Finally, it is pointed out that, in the event that consent is considered as
one of the legitimizing bases of the treatment, given that one of its
requirements is to be informed, the person in charge must enable the measures
pertinent techniques that allow proving that said consent has been fulfilled
the communication of data has been carried out in an informed manner.

IV

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5 of the RGPD, art. 58.2 b) provides the
possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what is indicated in the
Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, when deciding the sanction to be imposed, they have taken into account
count the following items,

 That it is a minor infraction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

 That even when the economic activity of the person in charge is linked to
the processing of personal data due to the nature of the business of the page
web ***URL.1 consists precisely in collecting and bringing together data from companies and
professionals who offer services that will later be demanded by
potential clients, the person in charge is a natural person.

 That there is no recidivism due to the lack of evidence of the commission of previous infractions.

For all these reasons, it is considered that the sanction that should be imposed is
warning, in accordance with the provisions of article 58.2 b) of the RGPD, in
in relation to what is stated in Considering 148, cited above.

On the other hand, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD,
according to which each control authority may "order the person in charge or in charge
of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period [...]”, the person in charge must prove, within a period of one month, that
has proceeded to update the privacy policy.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 13 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the same legal text, a sanction of
WARNING.

Likewise, within ONE MONTH from the notification of this act, you must
prove the following:

 Having updated the privacy policy of the website ***URL.1 to those provided in the
article 13 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution B.B.B. and report the results of the
performances to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-300320

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

