ICO. 

Informat

on Commissioner's 
i 

Offlee 

DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

SUPERVISORY POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

MONETARY PENAL TY NOTICE 

To: Maxen Power 

Supply Limited 

Of: Olympic House, 28-42 Clements 

Road, Ilford, 

Essex, IGl lBA 

1. The Information 

Commissioner 

("the Commissioner") 

has decided 

to 

issue Maxen  Power Supply  Limited  ("Maxen 

with a monetary 

Power") 

penalty  under 

section 

SSA of the Data Protection 

Act 1998 ("DPA"). 

The 

penalty 

is in relation 

to a serious 

contravention 

of regulations 

21 and 

24 of the Privacy 

and Electronic 

Communications 

(EC Directive) 

Regulations 

2003 ("PECR"). 

2. This notice explains 

the Commissioner's 

decision. 

Legal framework 

3. 

Maxen Power, whose registered 

office 

is given above (Companies 

House Registration 

Number: 10298693) 

is the organisation 
stated in 

this notice to have instigated 

the use of a public electronic 

communications 

service 

for the purpose of making unsolicited 
calls for 

the purposes 

of direct 

marketing 

contrary 

to regulations 

21 and 24 of 

PECR. 

1 

ICO. 

lnlormati on Commissioner's Office 

4. 

Regulation  21  applies to the making  of unsolicited calls for direct 
marketing  purposes.  It means that if  a company wants to make calls 
promoting a product or service to a subscriber who has a telephone 
number which is registered with the Telephone  Preference Service  Ltd 
("TPS"), or Corporate Telephone Preference  Service ("CTPS"),  then that 
subscriber  must have notified the company that they do not object to 
receiving such calls from it. 

5. 

Regulation 21(A1) of  PECR provides: 

"(A1) A person shall neither 

use, nor instigate 

the use of, a public 

electronic 

communications 

service for the 

purposes 

of making calls 

(whether 

solicited 

or unsolicited) 

for direct 

marketing 

purposes 

except where that person-

(a) does not prevent 

presentation 

of the identity 

of the calling 

line on the called 

line; or 

(b) presents 

the identity 

of a line on which he can be contacted." 

6. 

Regulation 21(1) of  PECR provides: 

"(1) A 

person shall neither 

use, nor instigate 

the use of, a public 

electronic 

communications 
service 

for the purposes 

of making 

unsolicited 

calls for direct marketing 

purposes 

where-

(a) the called line is that of a subscriber 

who has previously 

notified the 

caller 

that such calls should not for the time 

being 

be made on that line; or 

(b) the number allocated 

to a subscriber 

in respect 

of the ca/led 

line is one listed 

in the register 

kept under regulation 

26." 

2 

ICO. 

lnlormatton Commissioner's Office 

7. 

Regulation 21  paragraphs (2), (3),  (4)  and  (5)  of PECR provide: 

"(2) 

A subscriber shall not permit his line  to  be used in  contravention 
of paragraph (1). 

(3)  A person shall not be held to have contravened paragraph (1)(b) 

where the number allocated to the called line has been listed on the 
register for less than  28 days preceding that on which the call  is 
made. 

(4)  Where a subscriber who has caused a number allocated to  a line of 
his to  be listed in  the register kept under regulation  26 has notified 
a caller that he does not,  for the time being,  object to such calls 
being made on that line by that caller,  such calls may be made by 
that caller on that line, notwithstanding that the number allocated 
to that line is listed in the said register. 

(5)  Where a subscriber has given a caller notification pursuant to 

paragraph (4)  in relation to a line of his-

(a) the subscriber shall  be free to withdraw that notification at 
any time, and 
(b) where such notification  is withdrawn,  the caller shall not 
make such calls on  that line." 

8. 

Regulation 24 of PECR provides: 

"(1)  Where a public electronic communications service is used for the 

transmission of a communication for direct marketing purposes 
the person using,  or instigating the use of, the service shall 

3 

ensure that the following information  is provided with that 
communication -

ICO. 

Information Commlssioner·s Office 

(b) 

in relation to a communication to  which  regulation 21 
[or  21A] (telephone calls)  applies,  the particulars 
mentioned in paragraph (2J(a) and,  if the recipient of 
the call so requests,  those mentioned in paragraph 
(2J(b). 

(2)  The  particulars referred to in paragraph  (1) are -

(a) 

(b) 

the  name of  the  person; 

either the address of the person or a telephone 
number on which he can be reached free of charge. ✓, 

9. 

Under regulation 26 of PECR, the  Commissioner is required to maintain 
a register of numbers allocated to subscribers who have notified them 
that they do  not wish, for the time being, to receive unsolicited calls for 
direct  marketing  purposes on  those lines.  The Telephone  Preference 
Service  Limited  ("TPS") is a limited company which operates the 
register on  the  Commissioner's behalf.  Businesses who wish to  carry 
out direct  marketing  by telephone can  subscribe to the TPS for  a fee 
and  receive from  them  monthly a  list of numbers on that register. 

10.  Section 122(5) of the  DPA18 defines direct marketing as "the 

communication (by whatever means) of advertising material or 
marketing material which is  directed to  particular individuals". This 
definition also  applies for the  purposes of PECR (see regulation 2(2) 
PECR & Schedule  19 paragraphs 430  & 432(6) DPA18). 

4 

11. "Individual" 

and includes 

is defined 
in regulation 
an unincorporated 

body of such individuals". 

2( 1) of PECR as "a living 

individual 

12. A "subscriber" 

is defined 

in regulation  2(1) 

of PECR as "a person who is 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

a party to a contract 
communications 

with a provider 

of public electronic 

services 

for the supply of 

such services". 

13. Section 

SSA of the DPA (as applied 

to PECR cases by Schedule 
1 to 

PECR, as variously 

amended) states: 

"(1) The Commissioner 

the Commissioner 

may serve a person with a monetary 
is satisfied 

that -

penalty 

if 

(a) there has been a serious 

of the Privacy and Electronic 
Directive) 

Regulations 

2003 by the person, 

contravention 
(EC 

Communications 

of the requirements 

(b) subsection 

(2) or (3) applies. 

(2) This subsection 

applies 

if the contravention 

was deliberate. 

(3) This subsection 

applies 

if the person -

(a) knew or ought to have known that there was a risk that 

the contravention 

would occur, but 

(b) failed to 

take reasonable 

steps to prevent the 

contravention. 

14.  The Commissioner 

has issued statutory 

guidance 

under section 
SSC (1) 

of the DPA about the issuing 

of monetary penalties 

that has been 

published 

on the ICO's website. 

The Data Protection 

(Monetary 

Penalties) 

(Maximum Penalty 

and Notices) 

Regulations 

2010 prescribe 

that the amount of any penalty 

determined  by 

the Commissioner 

must 

not exceed £500,000. 

5 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

15. 

PECR  were enacted to  protect the individual's fundamental  right  to 
privacy in the electronic communications sector.  PECR were 
subsequently amended and strengthened. The Commissioner  will 
interpret PECR in a way  which is  consistent with the Regulations' 
overall aim of ensuring  high levels of protection for  individuals' privacy 
rights. 

16.  The provisions of the  DPA remain in force for the purposes of PECR 

notwithstanding  the introduction of the  DPA18:  see paragraph  58(1) of 
Schedule 20  to the  DPA18. 

Background to the case 

17.  Maxen  Power is a business energy provider.  Maxen  Power was 

incorporated on 27 July  2016  under the name  Hawking  Energy Supply 
Limited.  Maxen Power currently has one director,  Ishtiaq  Ahmad.  The 
company  has been registered with the Commissioner since 28  January 
2020. 

18.  Maxen Power  Supply first came to  the attention of the Commissioner in 

April  2021.  A search of the complaints received by ICO  and the TPS 
identified over 100 complaints about  Maxen Power and Caller Line 
Identities ("CLis") associated with  Maxen Power between  February 
2019  and  March  2021. 

19.  The complaints indicated that  Maxen Power was making  calls from 

overseas call centres while purporting to be from National Grid or the 
customer's current energy supplier. The calls were mainly to 
businesses,  some of whom were registered with the TPS or the CTPS. 
Complainants also reported receiving repeated calls despite opt-out 
requests.  Examples included: 

6 

i. "Sales call for energy supply. 

We have received 

over 20 nuisance 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

We have asked the sales agents not to 
on 

calls from this company. 
call again. We have also spoken to the company head  office 
three occasions 
to stop the calls unless we put a complaint 
refused 
lady we have spoken to at Maxen Power HQ is called -
and works in the customer 

and they have been extremely 

in writing. 

unhelpful 

care team." 

The 

and 

ii. At first, they say they are calling 

you from YOUR OWN electricity 

on your contract. 

Then they 

company about being overcharged 
go on to saying they can save you 25% to switch 
When I asked them which 
did not know. 
from and they said Maxen Power." 

company supplies 

So I asked them which company are you calling 

my business 
they 

contracts. 

iii. "Said they could save me 25% off my bill and wanted to 
know 

my current supplier 

and meter readings" 

20.  The searches also identified a data protection complaint dated  29 

March 2021 from a small business owner whose phone number has 
been registered with the TPS since 2005. The complainant had 
submitted a  subject access request to  Maxen Power for copies of call 
recordings and documents relating to a mis-sold energy contract. The 
complainant enclosed a letter he  had  sent to  Maxen Power which 
explains the background to  his request. The following is an extract 
from the letter: 

been using the services 

of -

"I had originally 
specialises 
rebates 
-
who claimed 

in obtaining 

to be from 

from energy companies. 

A gentleman 

contacted 

me and recommended 

a company that 

7 

ICO. 

Information 

Commissioner's 

Office 

Maxen Power and quoted to me tariffs that were much cheaper than 
our suppliers at the time. He also confirmed that 
a rebate in excess of 
£700 would be due in the near future. As a result of these assurances 
I 
agreed to switch suppliers when my renewal date was due. 

we have received 

Since then, 
are approximately EIGHT times 
rebate has been forthcoming. 

our first bills from Maxen Power. They 

as much as our previous 

suppliers. 

No 

Additionally, I have been back in touch with -
that it  was not their company policy  to 
and they had never heard of Maxen Power. 11 

and they told 
recommend another supplier 

us 

21.  Further analysis of the complaints  received about Maxen Power 

identified several  CLis that had been used to  make  the calls.  Searches 
of  the third  party information notice  ("3PIN") spreadsheet revealed that 
3PINs had already been issued in relation to three of the  numbers prior 
to the current investigation into  Maxen  Power.  The responses 
suggested that the call centres were using spoofed numbers and 
numbers allocated to individuals. 

22. 

In November 2021, further searches of the ICO and TPS complaints 
databases were conducted  which revealed that several more 
complaints had  been received about  Maxen Power  since the initial 
searches were conducted in April. The complaints related to  several 
different presentation CLis. 

23.  During November 2021 various 3PINs were sent to telecoms providers 

requesting subscriber details regarding  CLis linked to  Maxen Power. 
One of these  providers revealed that the  relevant number  was assigned 

8 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

to  the following end usera:  Aims Contact Technologies  Pvt  Ltd  ("Aims 
Tech"), 1st Floor, Regent Mall, Chen One  Road, Faisalabad, Pakistan. 

24.  Research uncovered that Aims Tech was making sales calls into the UK 

on  behalf of Maxen  Power. Additionally, it was uncovered  that Aims 
Tech was subject  to  a  total of 24 complaints from 20  separate 
subscribers, 14 of whom were registered with  the TPS or CTPS. 
Complaints included: 

i. 

i i .  

"Claimed from - - wanting to  save me money on  energy. 
Called 3 times and would not stop.  When I asked for their details 
they laughed and said they  were Boris Johnson. "  [sic] 

"A  vicious campaign  by this one company been harassing me for a 
few years to  change supply Always the same people but change 
number several  times such  harassment that i now refuse to  accept 
landlines numbers.  harassing for years and affecting my business by 
keeping the  lines busy" [sic] 

iii. 

"Trying to  sell energy services . .  This company keep calling  us.  We 
told them we  were registered to  TPS and we do  not want to  receive 
marketing calls from  them and we are not interested what  they offer 
but they don't stop." [sic] 

25.  On 10 December 2021, an i nitial investigation letter was sent to  Maxen 

Power. The letter was sent by email to __, as the 
designated contact on Maxen Power's ICO registration. The letter 
outlined the requirements of  PECR and the enforcement powers 
available to the ICO and asked her to provide answers to  several 
questions by 31  December. Attached  to the email was a redacted  copy 
of the spreadsheet listing the 24  complaints received about Aims  Tech 
between January 2020  and  November 2021. 

9 

ICO. 

Informaton Commissioner's Off ce

i 

i

26.  A substantive response was received from  Maxen  Power on  18 January 

2022. To  summarise,  Maxen Power claimed that it worked with a 
number of independent contractorso/ third  party  intermediaries 
("TPis"),  including Aims Tech.  All  independent contractors working  with 
Maxen  Power had protocols to  ensure  compliance with TPS.  Maxen 
Power went on to claim that 11Till today, we have not received a single 
complaint that our TPis has breached 

the guidelines 

of TPS or PECR". 

27.  On  28 January 2022, an email was  sent to  Maxen  Power requesting 

further information. 
providing a  list of  26 TPis  used by  Maxen Power during the  relevant 
period. 

responded on  10 February 2022, 

28.  On 21  February,  an email was  sent to 

requesting further 
information,  including a detailed description of the procedure  used by 
Aims Tech for screening  numbers against the TPS/CTPS.  A response 
was received  on 7  March 2022.  However,  the  response  was lacking  in 
detail and did not adequately address the issues raised  by the  ICO.  For 
example,  instead of providing a  detailed  description of the procedure 
used  by Aims Tech for screening  numbers  against the TPS/CTPS, • 
- stated that "Aims Tech were using data scrubbing". 

29.  On  18 March 2022, further searches of the ICO and TPS complaints 

databases were conducted  which  identified a  further complaint about 
Maxen Power dated  16 March  2022. The complainant statedo: 

"This person, who speak VERY bad English 
that he supplies 
He is TRYING to hijack the account. 
Electric, 

power to this building 

It is with - - -

not them. He is extremely abusive and refuses 

to remove my 

keeps calling 

me and argues 

and needs the meter readings. 

for 

i 
number from the system. He  has  use absolutely FOWL [sic] language 
on me." 

ICO. 

lnformaUon  Comm ssioner's Office 

30. 

31. 

The complainant's telephone  number has  been  registered  with  the TPS 
since 9 October 2004. 

In  light of the above, The Commissioner has concluded that Maxen 
Power used  overseas call centres,  including  Aims Tech, to make 
unsolicited  direct marketing  calls to small businesses. 

As such, The Commissioner is satisfied that a  large number of calls 
were all made for the purposes of direct marketing as defined  by 
section  122(5) DPA18.  Due to  the use of false company names, 
spoofed  CLis and  overseas telecoms providers, it has not been possible 
to confirm the exact number of complaints received or the total 
number of contraventions. 

32.  The  Commissioner has made the above findings of fact on the 

balance of probabilities. 

33.  The Commissioner has considered whether those facts  constitute a 

contravention of regulations  21 and  24 of PECR by Maxen  Power  and,  if 
so,  whether the conditions of section  SSA DPA are  satisfied. 

The contravention 

34.  The Commissioner finds that Maxen Power contravened regulations 2 1  

a n d  24 of PECR. 

35.  The Commissioner finds that the contravention was as follows: 

1 1  

ICO. 

Information 

Commissioner's 

Office 

36.  Between  1 January 2020  and 31  December 2021,  Maxen Power 

instigated the  use  of a public electronic telecommunications service for 
the purposes of  making unsolicited calls for direct marketing purposes 
to subscribers where the number allocated to the subscriber in respect 
of the called  line was a  number listed on the register of numbers kept 
by the Commissioner in accordance  with regulation 26, contrary to 
regulation 21(1)(b) of PECR. This resulted  in  a large amount of 
complaints being made to the TPS and the Commissioner.  Since  2018 
the  ICO and TPS have received  several hundred complaints about other 
CLis that appear to be associated with  Maxen Power. 

37.  The  Commissioner is  also satisfied for the  purposes of regulation  21 

that these unsolicited direct marketing calls were either: 

(i) made  to subscribers who had registered  with the TPS or CTPS 
at least 28 days prior to receiving the calls,  and who for the 
purposes of  regulation  21(4) had not  notified  Maxen Power that 
they did not  object to receiving such calls;  or 

(ii) made to subscribers who had previously notified the company 
they did not wish to receive such calls. 

38. 

For notification to be valid under regulation  21(4), the subscriber must 
have taken a clear and positive action to override their TPS registration 
and indicate their willingness to  receive  marketing calls from the 
company. The notification should reflect the subscriber's choice about 
whether or not they  are willing to receive marketing calls. Therefore, 
where signing up to use  a  product  or service is conditional upon 
receiving marketing calls, companies will need to demonstrate how this 
constitutes a clear and positive notification of the subscriber's 
willingness to receive such calls. 

1 2  

39. The notification 

must clearly 

indicate the subscrib

er's willingn
ess to 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

receive 

marketing 

calls specifica

lly. Companies 

cannot rely on 

subscribers 

opting in to marketing 

communications 

generally, 
unless it 

is clear that this will include 

telephone 

calls. 

40. 

Further, 

the notification 

must demonstrate 

the subscriber

's willingn

ess 

to  receive 

marketing 

calls from that company specifica

lly. Notifications 

will not be valid for the purposes of regulation 
asked to agree to rece ive marketing calls from "similar 

2 1 (4) if subscribers 

are 

organisat

ions", 

"partners", 

"selected third parties" 

or other similar 

generic 

descriptions. 

41. Further, 

Maxen Power failed 

to provide 

the recipient 

of the calls with 

the particular

s specified 

at regulation 

24(2) of PECR, and 

prevented 

the 

presentation 

of a line on which it could  be 

contacted 

in contravention 

of 

regulation 

21(A1) of PECR. 

42. The Commissioner 

has gone on to consider 

whether 

the conditions 

under section 

SSA DPA are met. 

Seriousness of the contravention 

43. The Commissioner 

is satisfied 

that the contravention 

identified 

above was serious. 

This is because 

there have been multiple 

breaches 

of regulations 

21 and 24 by  Maxen  Power 

arising 

from the 

organisation'

s activities 

between 1 January 2020 and 3 1  December 

2021 and this led to unsolici

ted direct marketing calls being made to 

subscriber

s who were registered 

with the TPS or CTPS and who had not 

notified 

Maxen  Power 

that they were willing 

to receive 

such  calls, 

and a 

large amount of complaints 

being made as a result. 

1 3  

ICO. 

lnformatioo Commissioner's Offce 

i

44.  The  contravention was  also serious due to  the frequency and content of 

the calls.  Complainants reported  receiving  multiple calls over a short 
period  of time, despite  repeated opt-out requests.  The callers  used 
aggressive  and  misleading sales tactics to persuade  businesses to 
switch energy suppliers, causing distress to  individuals who were on 
the receiving end of the calls and  potential financial damage to 
businesses who agreed  to  switch suppliers based  on  inaccurate 
information. 

45.  The Commissioner is therefore satisfied  that condition  (a) from 

section  SSA ( 1)  DPA is  met. 

Deliberate  or negligent contraventions 

46.  The  Commissioner has considered whether the contravention identified 

above  was deliberate.  In  the  Comm issioner's  view,  this  means that 
Maxen Power's actions  which constituted that contravention  were 
deliberate actions  ( even  if Max en  Power did  not actually intend thereby 
to contravene  PECR). 

47.  The  Commissioner considers that in this case  Maxen  Power did 

deliberately contravene  regulations 21( 1)(a), 21(Al) and 24 of PECR. 
This is due to  the  persistent nature of the calls,  ignoring of suppression 
requests,  spoofed  CLI  numbers  and  withholding caller name  and 
identity. 

48.  Additionally,  Maxen Power's business model appears to  have  been 

designed to avoid  Maxen  Power being  identified  as the  instigator of the 
calls.  Maxen  Power used  a  network of overseas call centres who  it 
referred  to  as "independent contractors" or "third party 

14 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

intermediaries".  It denied responsibility for the  complaints raised with it 
by the TPS. 

49. 

For the  above  reasons,  the Commissioner is satisfied that this breach 
was  deliberate. 

50.  Further and in the alternative, the Commissioner has gone on to 

consider whether the contravention identified above  was negligent. 
This consideration comprises two elements: 

5 1 .   Firstly,  he has considered whether Maxen  Power knew  or ought 

reasonably to  have  known that there was  a risk that  this contravention 
would occur.  He is  satisfied  that this condition is met,  for the  following 
reasons: 

52.  The  Commissioner published detailed guidance for companies carrying 

out marketing  explaining their legal requirements under PECR.  This 
guidance explains the  circumstances under which organisations are 
able to carry out marketing over the phone, by text,  by email, by post 
or by fax.  Specifically, it states that live calls must not be  made to any 
subscriber registered with the TPS,  unless the subscriber has 
specifically notified the company that they do not object to receiving 
such calls.  In  case organisations remain  unclear on their obligations, 
the ICO operates a telephone helpline. ICO communications about 
previous enforcement action where businesses have not complied with 
PECR are also readily available. 

53.  Where it is able to  identify the organisation making the calls, it is 

standard practice of the TPS is to contact that organisation on each 
occasion  a complaint is made.  The  Commissioner has evidence that 
Maxen Power was written to by the TPS on  12 occasions between 
February  2019  and January 2021 to inform it of complaints made. That 

1 5  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

there were a  large amount of complaints made to  the TPS over the 
period  of the contravention should  have made Maxen Power aware of 
the risk that such contraventions may occur and were  indeed occurring. 

54. 

It is therefore  reasonable to  suppose that  Maxen  Power should have 
been aware of its  responsibilities  in this area. 

55.  Secondly, the  Commissioner has  gone on to  consider whether Maxen 

Power failed  to take reasonable steps to  prevent the contravention. 
Again,  he is satisfied  that this condition is met.  Reasonable steps  could 
have  includedo: 

i.  Checking  the  information  provided  by  Aims Tech on the  TPI 

application form  rather than entering  into an agreement with  it 
the same day; 

ii.  Asking Aims Tech to  provide details of its standard operating 

procedures for screening data  against the TPS and CTPS; 

iii.  Conducting proper due diligence on Aims Tech rather than simply 

asking it to  complete  a quality  assurance  and self-assessment 
form  confirming its compliance with 37 compliance statements; 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

Investigating complaints  from  the TPS and taking appropriate 
remedial action; 

Screening the data  against the TPS  itself before providing it to 
the  call  centres. 

Providing call scripts for the call centres to  use during the initial 
part of the  call rather than just at the point of sale. 

16 

ICO. 

Information 

Commissioner's 

Office 

56.  The  Commissioner  is therefore satisfied that condition (b) from section 

SSA  (1) DPA is met. 

The  Commissioner's decision  to  issue a  monetaryJ>enalty. 

57.  The  Commissioner  has  taken  into  account  the  following  aggravating 

features of this case: 

i.  Maxen  Power  made  multiple  calls  on  the  same  day  to  certain 

individuals. 

ii.  Marketing  techniques  used  were  reported  to  be  aggressive  in 

nature. 

58.  The Commissioner found there to be no mitigating factors. 

59.  For the reasons explained above, the Commissioner is satisfied that the 

conditions from section  SSA (1) DPA have been met in this case.  He is 
also satisfied  that the procedural rights under section 55B have been 
complied with. 

60,  The latter has  included the issuing of a  Notice of Intent,  in which the 

Commissioner set out his  preliminary thinking.  In  reaching his final 
view, the Commissioner  has taken  into account the  representations 
made by Maxen Power on this matter. 

61.  The Commissioner is accordingly entitled to  issue a  monetary  penalty 

in this case. 

1 7  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

62.  The  Commissioner has considered whether,  in the circumstances,  he 

should exercise  his discretion so as to issue a  monetary  penalty. 

63.  The Commissioner has attempted to consider the likely impact of a 

monetary  penalty on Maxen Power  but  has  been  unable to do  so  given 
the lack of recent publicly available information.  Maxen  Power was 
invited to  provide financial  representations  in  response to  the Notice of 
Intent,  but failed to  do  so.  The Commissioner considers in the 
circumstances  that a  penalty  remains the appropriate course of action. 

64.  The  Commissioner's  underlying objective  in imposing a  monetary 
penalty notice is to  promote compliance with  PECR. The making of 
unsolicited direct  marketing calls is a  matter of significant public 
concern. A monetary  penalty in this case should act as a general 
encouragement towards compliance with the law,  or at least as a 
deterrent against  non-compliance,  on  the part of all persons running 
businesses currently  engaging  in these  practices.  This is an opportunity 
to  reinforce the need for  businesses to  ensure that they are only 
telephoning subscribers who are  not registered with the TPS or CTPS 
and/or specifically indicate that they do  not object to  receiving these 
calls. 

65. 

In making his decision, the Commissioner has also  had  regard to the 
factors set out in s108(2)(b) of  the  Deregulation Act  2015; including: 
the  nature and level of risks associated  with  non-compliance,  including 
the risks to  economic growth; the steps taken  by the business to 
achieve compliance and reasons for  its failure; the willingness and 
ability of the business to  address  non-compliance;  the  likely impact of 
the proposed  intervention  on the  business, and the  likely impact of the 
proposed  intervention on the  wider business community,  both  in  terms 

1 8  

lCO. 

Information  Commissioner's Office 

of deterring non-compliance and economic benefits to legitimate 
businesses. 

66. 

For these reasons,  the  Commissioner has decided to issue a monetary 
penalty in  this case. 

The amount of the penalty 

67.  Taking  into  account all of the above,  the Commissioner has decided 
that a penalty in the sum  of £120,000  ( one hu ndred and twenty 
thousand pounds) is reasonable and proportionate given the 
particular facts of the case and the underlying objective  in  imposing  the 
penalty. 

Conclusion 

68.  The monetary penalty must be paid to the Commissioner's office by 

BACS transfer or cheque by 30 June 2023 at the latest. The monetary 
penalty  is not kept  by the Commissioner but will  be paid into the 
Consolidated  Fund  which is the  Government's general  bank account at 
the  Bank  of  England. 

69. 

If the Commissioner receives full payment of the monetary penalty by 
29 June 2023 the Commissioner will reduce the monetary penalty by 
20% to £96,000 {ninety six thousand  pounds).  However, you 
should be aware that the early payment discount is not available  if you 
decide to exercise your right of appeal. 

70.  There  is a right of appeal to  the  First-tier Tribunal  (Information Rights) 

against: 

1 9  

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

(a) the imposition of the monetary penalty 

and/or; 

(b) the amount of the penalty specified  in  the  monetary penalty 

notice. 

71.  Any  notice of appeal should be received by the Tribunal within 28 days 

of the date of this  monetary penalty notice. 

72. 

Information about appeals is set out  in Annex 1. 

73.  The Commissioner will  not take action to enforce a monetary penalty 

unless: 

•  the period specified  within the notice within which a monetary 

penalty must be  paid has expired and all or any of the monetary 
penalty has not  been paid; 

•  all relevant appeals against the monetary penalty notice and any 

variation of it  have either been  decided or withdrawn;  and 

•  the period for appealing  against the monetary penalty and  any 

variation of  it has expired. 

74. 

In England,  Wales and  Northern  Ireland, the  monetary penalty is 
recoverable  by Order of the County Court or the  High Court.  In 
Scotland, the monetary penalty  can be enforced in the same manner as 
an extract registered decree arbitral bearing a warrant for execution 
issued  by the sheriff court of any sheriffdom in Scotland. 

20 

Dated the 30th day  of May 

2023 

ICO. 

lnfOJmallon Commissioner's 

Office 

Commissioner

Andy Curry 
Head of Investigations 
Information 
's Office 
Wycliffe 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 SAF 

House 

21 

ICO. 

Information Commissioner's Office 

ANNEX  1 

SECTION 55 A-E OF THE DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 

RIGHTS OF APPEAL AGAINST DECISIONS OF THE COMMISSIONER 

Section 55B(S) of the  Data Protection Act  1998 gives  any  person 

1. 
upon  whom a  monetary  penalty  notice  has been served a  right of 
appeal to the First-tier Tribunal  (Information  Rights) (the 'Tribunal') 
against the notice. 

2. 

If you decide to  appeal and if the Tribunal considers:-

that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in 

a) 
accordance with the law; or 

to  the extent  that  the notice involved  an  exercise of 

b) 
discretion by the Commissioner, that he  ought to have exercised 
his discretion differently, 

the Tribunal will allow the appeal or substitute such other decision as 
could have been made by the Commissioner.  In any other case the 
Tribunal will dismiss the appeal. 

You may  bring  an  appeal by serving a notice of appeal on the 

3. 
Tribunal at the following address: 

General  Regulatory  Chamber 
HM Courts  & Tribunals Service 
PO  Box 9300 
Leicester 
LEl  8DJ 

22 

Telephone:  0203  936  8963 

Email: 

grc@justice.gov.uk 

ICO. 

Information Comm ssioner's Office 

i 

The  notice of appeal should be sent so  it is received by the 

a) 
Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the  notice. 

b) 
If your notice of appeal is late the Tribunal will not admit it 
unless the Tribunal  has extended the time for complying with this 
rule. 

4. 

The notice of appeal  should state :-

your name and address/name and address of your 

a) 
representative (if any); 

an address where documents may be sent or delivered to 

b) 
you; 

c) 

the name and address of the Information  Commissioner; 

d) 

details of the decision  to  which the  proceedings relate; 

e) 

the result that you  are seeking; 

f) 

the grounds on which you  rely; 

you must  provide with the notice of appeal a  copy of the 

g) 
monetary penalty notice  or variation  notice; 

h) 
if you  have exceeded the time  limit mentioned  above the 
notice of appeal  must  include a  request for an extension of time 

23 

ICO. 

lnformatron Commissioner's Office 

and the reason why the notice of appeal was not provided  in 
time. 

Before deciding  whether or not  to appeal you may wish to consult 

5. 
your solicitor or another adviser. At the hearing of an appeal a  party 
may conduct his case  himself or may be represented by  any person 
whom he  may appoint for that purpose. 

The statutory provisions concerning  appeals to the  First-tier 

6. 
Tribunal (Information Rights)  are contained in section  55B(S) of,  and 
Schedule 6 to, the  Data  Protection Act 1998, and Tribunal  Procedure 
(First-tier Tribunal)  (General Regulatory Chamber) Rules 2009 
(Statutory Instrument 2009  No.  1976  (L.20)). 

24 

