1/18

938-0419
Procedure No.: PS/00385/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

From the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on the
following

BACKGROUND

 FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) filed a claim on 06/13/2018
before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection. The claim is directed against CANARY
ISLANDS CAR S.L. with NIF B35051820 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The reasons in which
the claim is based on are that this entity has provided your data to the
treatment of automated complaints from the Ministry of the Interior (file ending in
685-3) for speeding on 04/04/2018 at 13:47, with a rental vehicle
property of the claimed as its driver. He states that “I have never
rented any vehicle from CICAR (or any other car rental company) in
Gran Canaria.”

He indicates that before Traffic he has proven that he was not driving on the date and

hour driving the aforementioned vehicle, providing a certificate from your entity dated 05/29/2018

Provide a copy of:

-Traffic complaint notified with your data, vehicle registration ***MATRICULA.1, and
date 04/04/2018, at 13: 47, bears date of 05/7/2018.

- "Document of the DGT driver identification", which contains the date
identification 05/03/2018 resident lessee driver, owner data, the claimed one and its
address and a contract number ending in XXX

-Certificate from your company in which on that day between 8 and 15 hours the claimant was
working, providing his ordinary shift from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.
SECOND: In view of the facts reported in the claim, dated 07/20/2018
a letter is sent to the respondent, transferring a copy of the full complaint, which she received on 27
of same month. In the letter it was stated:

“In accordance with the functions provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of 27
of April 2016, General Data Protection (RGPD), particularly those that
They respond to the respect, by the data controller, of the principles of
transparency and proactive responsibility, transfer of the submitted claim is given,
requiring them, within a maximum period of one month from receipt, to notify the
claimant the final result of the actions carried out to address the claim,
must provide this Agency with a copy of the communications exchanged to this
regarding the claimant.

Together with the aforementioned documentation, they must be sent to this Agency, within the same period, all
the documents that are considered relevant in relation to the facts set forth in the
claim, including in particular the following information:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

Clear specification of the causes that have motivated the incidence that has

1.
gave rise to the claim.

Detail of the measures adopted by the person in charge to solve the

two.
incident and to prevent new incidents such as the one described.

In this regard, you can obtain, through www.aepd.es, additional information
on the obligations, provided for in the data protection regulations, for those responsible
and treatment managers.

3. If applicable, supporting documentation that, in accordance with the provisions of the
article 12 of the RGPD, the appropriate measures have been taken to facilitate the affected party
exercise of their rights under articles 15 to 22, including a full copy of the
communications sent in response to requests made by the
claimant.

The requested information must be sent to the Agency through its Registry
Electronic (https://sedeagpd.gob.es) or from any of the official registries
contemplated in article 16.4 of Law 39/2015, of the Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations, including assistance offices in matters of
records of all the bodies of the General Administration of the State, of the
Administrations of the Autonomous Communities, and of the entities that make up the
Local Management.

In view of all the documentation provided, the Agency will carry out the actions
that are appropriate, in application of the investigative and corrective powers
established in article 57 of the RGPD.

The respondent did not send any response.

THIRD:
https://monitoriza.axesor.es on CANARY ISLANDS CAR S.L., B35051820 consists:

 According to the information obtained on 02/8/2019 from the website

- Economic Group: CABRERA MEDINA BUSINESS GROUP LIMITED COMPANY

-Global parent company: GRUPO EMPRESARIAL CABRERA MEDINA SOCIEDAD
LIMITED
EU Size: Corporate

-Big size

-Activity: 7711 - Rental of automobiles and light motor vehicles

-Constitution: 09/23/1980

-Type of company: Group subsidiary

-CNAE: 7711 - Rental of automobiles and light motor vehicles

-Employees: 431

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

-A report extracted from the aforementioned website is included, as well as general information on the
entity, extracted from the Mercantile Registry on 01/11/2019, highlighting that the share capital
disbursed amounts to €909,026.

-The query made to the AEPD database that manages the
history of the companies, and the defendant, as of 02/12/2019, does not have any sanction.

  On 02/18/2019, the director of the AEPD agreed

FOURTH:
START
SANCTION PROCEDURE against CANARY ISLANDS CAR S.L., for the alleged
Violation of article 5.1 d) of the RGPD punishable in accordance with the provisions of art. 83.5
of the aforementioned GDPR.

For the assessment of the sanction that was implemented in the initial agreement,

contemplated:

-The data processed has been in compliance with an imposed legal obligation.

-The affected data is of a basic nature, fully identifying the affected party, in
correspondence with those that can usually appear in lease contracts of
vehicles.

-The impact on the claimant's right is not of a high level, by making himself known to a
competent body that has a register of drivers and uses it for said
function, being a legal function.

-- It has not collaborated with the control authority, since the claim was transferred, with its
documentation did not respond to this AEPD in any way, and it is also unknown if it has
taken some measure so that the infraction is not repeated and to mitigate the facts
produced (83.2.f).

- In the transfer, it was expressly warned of possible actions to be taken by this AEPD in

depending on the answer given.

-Treats, as part of its activity on a regular basis, with personal data

83.2.k) RGPD in relation to 76 LOPDGDD.

As a consequence with the elements that are available, without prejudice to what
derived from the processing of the procedure, the initial assessment reached by the
imposition of the fine for the imputed infraction was 45,000 euros without prejudice to what
result of the instruction of this procedure.

FIFTH: Faced with the agreement, the defendant states on 03/1/2019:

Indicates that the request for information on the transfer of the claim was answered, and

a)
contributes:

1-copy of the document from the electronic headquarters of the AEPD "receipt, registration
entry” entry 08/17/2018 registration number 190559/2018, entitled
"response to request for information" in that on the second page there is no
there is an attached file.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

2-copy of the document from the electronic headquarters of the AEPD "receipt, registration
entry” 08/20/2018 registration number 190658/2018, titled “response to
request for information” in which the second page does not contain a file
any attached.

The copies sent coincide with those registered in the dates
mentioned in procedure E/03659/2018, and in which there are no references
of associated response attachments. By comparison, in the writing that
now it presents as allegations that said annexes are included, one by
each attached document, which may show that at the time they could not
The response sheets that it manifests must be attached.

For this reason, it requests that the allegations be “retroduced to the moment of the

presentation of said writings.

b)
Manifested in a document that it provides, signed on 08/16/2018 (response request
E/3659/2018) that there were two CICAR clients with the same name and surname. attached
screen print of your management program as document one. In it are listed
two sheets in the "Clients-Consultation code" application with different client numbers, DNI and
rest of the data, coinciding in the name and surnames, one completely in lowercase, another in
capital letters. The data of the claimant consist of registration since 11/15/2017, last contact
05/17/2018, “contracts 14”, type of client “web”, client number ending in 092. In the file
of the other client, client code ending in 38 and in contracts appear 68.

It states that “this was the reason that the vehicle rental contract was
made in the name of the claimant.” Attached in document two, a copy of the contract
of rental in which the data pre-filled automatically,
including ID of the claimant, address, handwritten signature, date of delivery and collection
04/04/2018, client number ending in 92

c)
Provide a copy of the rental contract of the vehicle with which the violation of
traffic, appearing completed with the data of the claimant in typography of
computer, with a signature that does not resemble that of the claimant on the DNI of the
claim copy provides. It is also reflected that the car was delivered by an employee of
CIGAR. The copy provided does not contain the date on which the contract was signed.

On the back of the contract, the processing of the data, its purposes and

headquarters before which to exercise their rights in English and Spanish.

It states that the claimant did not contact them.
It should be noted that if the claimant did not sign said contractual document that gives
If the data is given to the DGT, it would be impossible for it to know those rights.

d)
It was the DGT that contacted them, submitting the complaint of the
claimant and it was at that moment when they became aware of the “duplicity of the codes

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

customers". Attached in document four, a letter from the DGT, of which the following stands out: dated 06/27/2018,
requests the accused: “In view of the documentation sent by you on 06/12/2018
and in order to comply with the provisions of the Road Safety Law, we request that you send
signed by both parties the sanctioned vehicle lease contract” adding
copy of the claim that the claimant filed on 05/30/2018 with the aforementioned entity

and)
Indicates that a notification has been sent to all offices so that at the moment
to carry out the contracts, in addition to the identification with name and surnames, the
ID verification.

They proceeded “to settle the fine directly with the bank”
F)
“taking charge of said sanction.” Attach a copy of the payment of the fine as
document five”, income receipt of 50 euros with the indication of the number of
file made on 07/12/2018.

SIXTH: On 04/29/2019, the test practice period begins, incorporating the
from the claim and its documents, as well as those obtained and provided by
the one denounced in the allegation phase.

In addition, it is decided to practice the following:

To the claimed:

Provide a copy of the protocol followed by employees for contracting with clients-

1)
natural persons, vehicle rental with regard to:

-Document requested from the client when hiring and signing the rental contract
(internal document or established protocol or any document that accredits it and that is
certify that it is delivered to the employees or they know it).

-Report if at the beginning of the vehicle rental contract, the database is consulted
The client is requested to show the DNI or valid identification document, or only with the appointment of
surnames name (Provide the internal document or established protocol or any document
that proves it and that it is proven that it is delivered to the employees or they know it).

It answers that the OUTSET information system is used. Attach a copy of
documents 2, 3 and 4. To gain access, the employee must identify himself with a username and password.
Users have the help option in the application, which can be accessed by all staff.

Document 1 entitled "Rent a car vehicle delivery procedure" is the
Feb 2010 version. It indicates the process for the delivery of vehicles to its customers
distinguishing if they have a reservation or not.

The protocol states that for clients with a reservation, “when the client visits the
office to pick up the vehicle, the administrative attendant asks for the driver's license
and the DNI if you are a foreign client, and the reservation code that you enter in the program
OUTSET and automatically obtains all the data of the reservation”- The permission of
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

driving because "in case of having it withdrawn by the DGT, the employee would not proceed to make him
contract."

"If the client does not know the reservation code, the administrative performs a search in

the OUTSET by DNI or by client name”.

“If the client is not registered, their data is entered in the OUTSET from
of the driving license. Subsequently, a contact telephone number is entered in the contract,
number plate of the assigned vehicle and at the end prints the contract, which is reviewed with the client and in
If he agrees, he signs it, handing over the keys and a copy of the contract. Inside of
delivery envelope in which the administrative registers the vehicle's license plate, the
vehicle registration, model, color kilometers, where it is parked, level of
fuel and if the vehicle is delivered with any damage”, finally reminds you that “the delivery
of keys must do it using said envelope, completing the cover of this ".

If the client does not have a reservation, prepare the contract and act as indicated.

It is indicated that the license plate of the vehicles is in the computer program, counting
with your rental history. Each contract is identified with a unique number and is registered
in said computer program.

Document two provides a printout of the authentication screen to access the

OUTSET system

two.

Proof of access in the information systems or database used for the

rent a car. Print and provide the screens resulting from these operations:

- query to the information system that is used to make a rental contract of
vehicle, by the terms: AAA, results that are given, it should be seen step by step or
introduced and the resulting).

It states that document 4 reflects the result of the query with the data of
surname and name of the claimant, pointing out that the program only allows searching by
name or surnames, in addition to ID, telephone, address, but not by name and surnames, or
by customer number, for "not being necessary for the operation". In the screen print that
accompanies in the search by surnames, 19 clients with the same results are returned
surnames, including one with the same name and surnames, different DNI, mobile and number of
client ending in 38. The letters with which it appears are in capital letters, those of the
lowercase claimant. Each client has a code containing the permit number of
driving, which coincides with the DNI, stating type: WEB or DIR, date of birth, and telephone.
The claimant's information appears with her NIF, code ending in 92, date of birth, line
mobile and “R.R.R. SL”.

Consult the information system that is used to make a rental contract for

two.
vehicle by the terms: customer number ***NUMERO.1.

Document five resulting from the consultation with said client number is attached,
featuring A.A.A. with three contracts with different numbers, from 10 and 04/29/2019 and 05/3/2019.
This customer number corresponds to the person whose name and surname coincide with
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

those of the claimant and that she was allegedly the one who contracted the vehicle that was
sanctioned. It coincides with the data provided in allegations to the agreement in which they appeared
both clients with the same names and surnames and different client numbers.

3.

Documents that are collected on the first occasion that a client contracts the rental of a
vehicle, and if the same is collected each time. (internal document or protocol established
or any document that proves it and that proves that it is delivered to the employees or
know).

It states that it has already been answered in another point, on the first occasion that a client
contracts is the same documentation, valid driving license where the DNI appears
(document 1)

Four.

In this specific case, the claimant was registered in 2017, a copy of the

contract signed on that occasion.

Attach in document 7 a copy of the contract with the data printed in the document,
NIF, date of birth, customer code ending in 092, vehicle delivery date 12/4/217 to
5/12/2017, and a handwritten signature that is dissimilar to that of the contract that gives rise to the fine. In
the copy provided does not contain the date on which the contract was signed

5.
Explanation of the reason why the claimant in her client file, has a date
last contact 05/17/2018, and what does "contracts 14" mean, or if no amount appears
in said section, accrediting it.

He states that 14 is the number of contracts that appear in his client file as
made in your name, and the date of the last contract, 05/17/2018 refers to the object contract
of this procedure.

Considers that given the volume of clients they handle and who have never had a
assumption like the one analyzed, should be treated as an exceptional error that will be taken into
account for action

To the claimant:

Yo.

You are informed that the accused has your data on the occasion of having
requested his services, high date, 11/15/2017 although in “his complaint indicates that he has not
never rented a vehicle from CICAR or in Gran Canaria”. In this regard, state whether you ratify
these circumstances.

The claimant responds on 05/23/2019 that what she indicated in her claim is that
that “I have never rented any vehicle from CICAR (or any other car rental company)
vehicles) in Gran Canaria.”, but indicates that: “It is obvious that to commit the illicit that I have
denounced, my data had to work in their database”, “indeed I rented in
one occasion a defendant's vehicle” “without remembering the exact date, it could well
be on 11/15/2017 in Santa Cruz de Tenerife”. “But this circumstance that I have not denied does not
It is related to the complaint filed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

The claimant requests that "ignoring the documents presented by CICAR" "the

transfer of all the briefs presented by the accused party in the file”

Responding to the claimant in writing dated 05/30/2019:

In relation to the recent response provided by you in the period of

tests, in which he was asked:

“You are informed that the accused has your data on the occasion of having requested
his services, high date, 11/15/2017 although in his complaint he indicates that he has never rented
a CICAR vehicle or in Gran Canaria. In this regard, state whether you ratify said
circumstances."

As the question is not well explained, it is clarified that in your complaint you indicated
that “I have never rented any vehicle from CICAR (or any other car rental company)
vehicles) in Gran Canaria.”

Upon learning from the allegations of the claimed party, that she possesses her data by virtue of a contract
carried out in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, and that he gave his data erroneously, missing the
Instructor that you did not indicate in your complaint if you had ever rented from said
company before a vehicle, was for what was requested in evidence in a way
not clearly expressed.

The request is aimed at distinguishing whether in any way he had a prior relationship as
user with you or if indeed, as you state, you have been a user of said
service prior to the event.

Regarding your request for a complete copy of the proceedings, the presentation of the
complaint drives the procedure, which is initiated ex officio by agreement of the director of the
AEPD (article 58 of Law 39/2015, of 1/10, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
the Public Administrations (LPACAP), indicated in its article 62: "A complaint is understood,
the act by which any person, in compliance or not with a legal obligation, puts into
knowledge of an administrative body the existence of a certain fact that
could justify the ex officio initiation of an administrative procedure.” Section 5 of
The same article indicates "The presentation of a complaint does not confer, by itself, the condition
interested in the procedure.”

The issue must be examined taking into account the limits presented by the
intervention of complainants in sanctioning procedures. First,
residing the ius puniendi in the State, it is not considered legitimate interest that the imposition
of the sanction constitutes by itself the satisfaction of an interest, nor is a position
advantage or legal utility by the complainant or the immediate investigation of the
facts, which, on the other hand, appear in the resolution, which this AEPD publishes on its website.

The complainant, even when he/she considers himself/herself to be a "victim" of the infringement
denounced, does not have a subjective right or a legitimate interest that the denounced person be
sanctioned, or on the amount of the sanction. Since the punitive power belongs
only to the Administration -in this case, the Spanish Data Protection Agency-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

Only the Administration has an interest protected by the legal system in which the
offender is punished.

Therefore, you should, if you deem it convenient, prove some genuine interest worthy of

guardianship that allows their situation to be considered as interested.

On 06/27/2019, the claimant resubmitted a document ratifying the
terms of his complaint and that the question asked in evidence is a manipulation, a
procedural fraud by CICAR, and affirms "About CICAR's error-which informs me
In your last communication-I indicate that this statement is not true either. Upon receiving the
proposed traffic sanction, I contacted the defendant by phone,
unsuccessfully demanded explanations and the rectification of the error before the DGT. Until
today".

In this sense, the terminological error was that of the instructor himself, who is the one who motu
own configured and prepared what was requested in tests, which were not required by the
claimed. On the other hand, the error is not related to the fact that it has not been
given explanations about the correction of the sanction.

To the DGT:

Regarding the file number of the sanction, dated 04/04/2018, number ***NUMERO.2,
1.
DNI ***NIF.1, A.A.A., if the claim filed against the commission of
said fine, which was paid by the CICAR rental company on 07/12/2018.

No response was received.

SEVENTH: On 07/08/2019, a resolution proposal is issued, with the literal: "That by the
director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, CANARY ISLANDS is sanctioned
CAR S.L., with NIF B35051820, for a violation of Article 5.1. d) of the RGPD, in accordance
with article 83.5 of the RGPD, with a fine of €45,000.00 (FORTY-FIVE THOUSAND
euros). “

It was taken into account to assess the amount:

“Regarding the duration of the infraction, it is committed since the data is reported,
materializing at the moment in which the claimed party receives the complaint bulletin of
05/07/2018, the traffic fine being processed pending clarification by the driver
when the defendant files her claim, on 05/30/2018, proceeding from
then on the part of the claimed to collaborate with the traffic authorities until the
payment of the penalty. (83.2.a of the RGPD).

Although there is an obligation to transfer the identification data of vehicle drivers
who have committed a traffic offense to comply with the legal obligation
established, also and therefore, extreme care must be taken when dealing with data,
concurring a lack of diligence through an employee regarding the performance of the
contract (article 83.2.b of the RGPD). The mere coincidence of name and surname does not justify
the realization of the vehicle rental contract with the data of another person, of the
claimant, especially when you have the person in front, to whom the vehicle is delivered
and several people or phases intervene: preparation of the contract, data collection and delivery-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

verification of the vehicle, delivery of a copy of the contract, payment, procedures in all of which
the identity of the contracting party must be verified and in this case diligence is not credited
some, despite the existence of a procedure. The defendant does not explain well what she could
happen despite the coincidence of name and surname, which cannot serve on its own,
to understand why things happen.

The infringement is not due to the lack of protocol for data processing, but
well they should be reinforced, and let employees know that they can lead to the
commission of an infraction if in their way of acting they do not carry out the indicated verifications
(83.2.d). On the identification of the person responsible for the lack of attention to the data in the
contract, the claim does not indicate what measures have been adopted.

The reinforcement that the respondent will remember in the measures of
contracting (83.2.f) as a modality so that infractions such as the one analyzed are not repeated,
but it is also appreciated that it was already implemented.

The affected data is of a basic nature, fully identifying the affected party, in
correspondence with those that usually appear in rental contracts of
vehicles (83.2.g) data that is otherwise disclosed and disclosed to a competent body
which also has a drivers registry.

It should be noted that in the management database of the Subdirectorate General for

Inspection does not show previous violations by the claimed.

It cannot be considered, as indicated in the initial agreement, that there is a lack of
collaboration with the supervisory authority since it is proven that it sent written responses
without the attached files, and in pleadings to the agreement it was seen that the document was dated
08/16/2018.”

EIGHTH: On 07/19/2019, the respondent presents allegations indicating:

1)

The established identification procedure was not followed, believing it to be a
unusual name and surname, due to overconfidence, considering it unnecessary
also request the DNI. It is an error and there is no intent or fraud, concurring
a psychological error in the appreciation of the action, an "insurmountable human error".

two)

It is not in accordance with the typification, and the article 25 must correspond,

sanctionable according to 83.4 of the RGPD.

3)

Concurs to reduce the amount, the lack of intentionality or negligence. The

Negligence must be intentional according to article 28.1 of Law 40/2015.

4)

The “mitigating” cooperation with the control authority has not been appreciated. The
amount of the sanction has not changed with respect to what was initially erroneously considered and
This was indicated in the initial agreement, "due to the malfunction of the electronic headquarters",
as confirmed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

PROVEN FACTS

a) The data of the claimant were transferred to the DGT by the claimed, company of
rental of vehicles, for appearing in their information systems as a driver of the
vehicle at the time of a traffic violation on 04/04/2018, at 13:47. Provides the
certified claimant of his company in which that day, between 8 and 15 hours he was
working, providing his ordinary shift from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.

b) The claimant states that she received the complaint from the DGT, providing the bulletin that
It bears the date of 05/07/2018 stating your data. The claimant filed a brief
resorting to the DGT the sanction on 05/30/2018.

c)
The data of the claimant was delivered by the claimed to the traffic authorities on
05/03/2018 as the driver of the vehicle at the time the infraction occurred,
stating the NIF ending 162 H, name and surnames, address.

d) The defendant provides a copy of her information systems in which another client appears
with the same name and surnames as the claimant, different: DNI, address and number of
client ending in 38, the claimant's ending in 92, claimant registration date 11/15/2017, of
the other person 03/1/2016.

e) The vehicle rental contract on the day the traffic violation occurred
04/04/2018, figure filled in with the data of the claimant, her client code ending in
92, in computer typography, with a signature that does not resemble that of the
claimant in the DNI whose copy is provided in his claim. The car was delivered for a
CIGAR employee. The contract is undated.

On the back of the contract, information is provided on the processing of the data, its purposes and the venue before which
exercise their rights in English and Spanish.

The claimed manages the delivery of the vehicles and the contracting with an application
F)
information technology that, among other things, collects data from the driving license and DNI
(normally it coincides with the DNI and the driving licence). The employee must indicate
start the task of contracting and delivering the vehicle, your username and password and
collect the data if it is the first time, print the contract and verify it. The
claimed states that he will insist on also verifying with the DNI, which coincides with the
driving license number.

g) The respondent provided a copy of the contract that the claimant used for the first time. In the
The same data as the one that motivates this claim, data printed on the
document, NIF, date of birth, customer code ending in 092, vehicle delivery date

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

12/4/217 to 12/5/2017, and a handwritten signature that is dissimilar to that of the contract that gives rise to the
penalty fee. The copy provided does not contain the date on which the contract was signed.

h) The respondent paid the penalty imposed on the claimant on 07/12/2018.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 04/27/2016 on the protection of people
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these
data (hereinafter GDPR); recognizes each control authority, and as established
in art. 47 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD), the director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve this
process.

II

Produced as data processing by the claimed party is accredited
by sending incorrect data for the identification of the driver of the vehicle on the day of the
infraction, it is considered that the respondent has committed an infraction of article 5.1 d) of the
RGPD, establishes:

“Personal data will be:

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all reasonable steps will be taken
so that personal data that is inaccurate with respect to
regarding the purposes for which they are processed ("accuracy");

The established obligation imposes the need for the personal data that is
collected in any file are accurate and respond, at all times, to the situation
of those affected, being those responsible for the treatment who is responsible for the
fulfillment of this obligation.

Not only is it necessary for the data to be collected for processing in accordance with
a series of criteria (principle of proportionality) and that they are used to
purposes compatible with those that motivated the collection (principle of purpose), but rather
It also requires that whoever collects and processes personal data guarantees and protects that the
information submitted to treatment is accurate and up-to-date.

Non-compliance or violation of the principle of accuracy may have important
consequences for the affected party, as occurs in the prosecuted case, in which a
unduly to the claimant a sanctioning procedure for infraction of,
proving the poor processing of the driver identification process by the
of the lessor of the vehicle, the claimed one.

The imputed fact consists of associating a name and surnames and address data
with a certain vehicle, with which a traffic offense had been committed, and such
association of personal data was clearly inaccurate as the own

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

denounced recognizes, since the person to whom the name and surnames correspond
provided was not the driver of such a vehicle.

The respondent used the claimant's data to draw up a contract of
vehicle rental, and led to the identification as a driver of a vehicle incurring
in the infringement of lack of accuracy of data in the treatment carried out,
proving that said data is not true, true or truthful. Completing the contract takes
to misidentify the cause of the infraction. If the contract had been
rigorously completed, the data of the claimant would not have been contemplated but of the
real person who used the service that day.

Regarding the allegation that actions are being rolled back, it should be noted that as soon as
to your statement that on 08/17 and 20/2018 you sent the response, you are told that in
the two shipments does not appear in the accompanying supporting document that was sent with any of
the two mailings, which is why the annex with his response was not received. I also know
means that both there is an infringement if these are rolled back or not, indicating that the
Responsibility for not having attached the annexes with the answers lies with the person claimed. The
The processing of the transfer of the claim is carried out in order to analyze the alleged infringement and
to assess whether it is convenient or appropriate to start the procedure.

The claimant did have her data in the systems of the claimed by a
prior service, but initially reported them as the driver of the vehicle that caused the
infringement. The treatment of the data of the person who causes the infringement derives from the
contractual relationship and if this was not configured properly, it leads to the infraction that here
is considered.

Knowing that there may be different names and surnames, the claimed account
with elements to discriminate by DNI, number that coincides with the permit of
driver, customer number or printing of the copy of the contract, among others, although these
checks are carried out by employees, it should be noted that in this case they were not carried out
Indeed, if any of the three elements had been verified, the problem could have been detected.
defect at its source. That is, you must demand the identification document at the time
adequate to provide effectiveness to the measure.

In addition, it should be noted that it is not that the data of the complainant were wrong,
but they have been in relation to your information to traffic authorities such as
lessee of a vehicle that causes a traffic violation, when as it is credited,
Your data does not correspond to said rental. That lack of veracity is what is imputed
in this procedure. This issue is related to management, but it is a
qualified treatment of a customer's data consisting of providing data
personal, those of the complainant in a matter in which he has no intervention and is
indirectly violate their rights by being charged as responsible for the
traffic authorities in an administrative file for said declaration of the
reported. When handling personal data, you must be careful and give
importance to its management so that situations such as the one denounced do not occur.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

III

Article 58. 2.i and 2.i) of the RGPD indicates:

2. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:

1. impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for processing, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article
83 of the aforementioned Regulation, with administrative fines of a maximum of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
of total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount.

Recital 150 of the RGPD indicates: “In order to reinforce and harmonize the sanctions
administrative actions for infringement of this Regulation, each control authority must
be empowered to impose administrative fines. This Regulation should indicate
violations as well as the maximum limit and the criteria to set the corresponding
administrative fines, which the competent control authority must determine in each
individual case taking into account all the concurrent circumstances in it, taking into account
in particular to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement and its consequences and to
the measures taken to ensure compliance with the obligations imposed by the
this Regulation and prevent or mitigate the consequences of the infringement.

The LOPGDD in its article 72.1.a) indicates: "Infringements considered very serious

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

4. The processing of personal data violating the established principles and guarantees

in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

The determination of the sanction that should be imposed in this case requires observing
the provisions of articles 83.1 and 2 of the RGPD, precepts that, respectively,
have the following:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
in accordance with this article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in
sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case
individually, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures referred to in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its
amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

a)
The nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered.
suffered;

b)

the intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

any measure taken by the controller or processor to

c)
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d)
the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures they have applied under
articles 25 and 32;

any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the

and)
treatment;

the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy

F)
to the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g)

the categories of personal data affected by the breach;

i)
the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.” Within this section, the LOPDGDD
contemplates in its article 76, entitled "Sanctions and corrective measures":

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also

may be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing

personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission of

the infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are disputes between them and any interested party.

3. It will be possible, complementary or alternatively, the adoption, when appropriate, of the
remaining corrective measures referred to in article 83.2 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.”

Regarding the duration of the infraction, it is committed since the data is reported,
materializing at the moment in which the claimed party receives the complaint bulletin of
05/7/2018, when the defendant files her claim, on 05/30/2018, leaving the
traffic fine in process while waiting to clarify the identity of the driver, proceeding
since then by the claimed to collaborate with the traffic authorities until the
payment of the penalty (83.2.a of the RGPD). The affected data is of a basic nature, in
correspondence with those that usually appear in rental contracts of
vehicles (83.2.g) data that is otherwise disclosed to a competent body. The
The fine was paid to the DGT for the claim on 07/12/2018. The claimant does not suffer
economic damage, since the process was started with the defendant to clarify the
facts.

In order to comply with the established legal obligation, extreme care must also be taken
care when data is processed, concurring a lack of diligence through a
employee regarding the performance of the contract (article 83.2.b of the RGPD). the mere
coincidence of name and surname does not justify the execution of the rental contract of
vehicle with the data of another person, of the claimant, especially when you have the
person in front, to whom the vehicle is delivered and several people or phases intervene:
preparation of the contract, data collection and delivery-verification of the vehicle, delivery of a copy
of the contract, payment, procedures in all of which the identity of the party must be verified
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

contracting party and in this case no diligence is credited, despite the existence of a
process. The defendant does not explain well what could have happened despite the
coincidence of name and surname, which cannot serve by itself, to understand why
events happen.

The infringement occurs not because of the lack of protocol for the treatment of
data, although they must be reinforced, and let employees know that they can give
give rise to the commission of an infraction if in their way of acting they do not carry out the verifications
indicated (83.2.d).

The reinforcement that the requested party will remember in the measures is positively valued.
of contracting (83.2.f) as a modality so that infractions such as the one analyzed are not
reiterate, but it is also appreciated that it was already implemented.

It cannot be considered, as indicated in the initial agreement, that there is a lack
of collaboration with the supervisory authority, since it is proven that he sent writings of
response without the attached files, and in pleadings to the agreement it was seen that the writing had
date of 08/16/2018. This does not suppose but a will to give answer to the explanations
of the AEPD, reflected in said letter without being related to "cooperation in order to
remedy the infraction and mitigate the possible adverse effects”, since they had already been
resolved and paid the fine, even before receiving the transfer of the complaint by
of the AEPD (07/20/2018). It should be emphasized that in the management database of the
Subdirectorate General for Inspection there are no previous infractions by the
claimed. Taking these circumstances into account, a penalty of 25,000
euros.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CANARY ISLANDS CAR S.L., with NIF B35051820, for a
infringement of Article 5.1.d) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine
of 25,000 euros, in accordance with 83.2 a), b) d) f) and g).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CANARY ISLANDS CAR S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned person that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
that this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of art. 98.1.b)
of Law 39/2015, of 1/10 of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter LPACAP), within the voluntary payment period established in art. 68 of the
General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29,
in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003, of 12/17, through its entry, indicating the NIF
sanctioned and the procedure number that appears in the heading of this
document, in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened in the name
of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at Banco CAIXABANK, S.A. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is between the
days 1 and 15 of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the voluntary payment will be

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if it is between the days
16th and last of each month, both inclusive, the payment term will be until the 5th of the second
following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDPGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDPGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in the
period of two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP, it may be
precautionary suspension of the firm decision in administrative proceedings if the interested party expresses
its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the case, the
The interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry of the
Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through one of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1/10. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the effective filing of the
Sponsored links. If the Agency was not aware of the filing
contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

