GUIDELINES FOR 
PROCESSES INVOLVING 
DATA COMMUNICATION BETWEEN 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS 
IN THE FACE OF THE RISK OF 
PERSONAL DATA BREACHES 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
v. March 2023 
 
 
 
 
Page: 2 of 15 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
The purpose of this document is to guide those responsible for processes that include the exchange of data between Public Administrations. It is specifically aimed at those processes that, due to the high volume of personal data being processed and the ongoing interconnection between Public Administration systems, may result in massive breaches of high-risk personal data for fundamental rights. To this end, it provides guidance on how to manage the risks to the rights and freedoms of individuals that could arise from potential scenarios of massive breaches. 
These guidelines address the need to manage both the risks to the rights and freedoms of individuals and the risk to society itself or a representative group thereof, arising from the compromise of massive amounts of personal data. Those responsible must assume that breaches can occur and that security measures do not guarantee total protection. Therefore, those responsible must implement specific measures from the design of data exchange operations to minimize the potential personal and social impact of a breach. Proper management involves establishing, prior to the occurrence of a breach affecting fundamental rights, the measures and actions that should be taken in the event that such a breach occurs.  
Effective risk management involves the coordinated action of the various parties involved in the process, a joint study of the different scenarios of massive breaches in case of failure of security measures, and the coherent adoption, within the scope of the different responsibilities, of procedures, data protection techniques, and specific and appropriate security measures to minimize their impact on fundamental rights. 
This document is directed at data controllers in the Public Sector and their data protection delegates. As supporting material, it includes a non-exhaustive list of possible preventive, detection, response, review, and monitoring measures that could be implemented within the framework of such processes.  
 
 
 
 
 
Keywords: Public Administrations, exchange, connectivity, risk, impact assessment, breaches, proactive responsibility, data protection, risk, impact, data protection by design, privacy, security, coordination. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Page: 3 of 15 
  
INDEX 
 
 
I. 
OBJECTIVES AND TARGET AUDIENCE 
4 
II. 
INTRODUCTION 
4 
III. HIGH COMPLEXITY PROCESSES 
5 
A. 
Automation of data exchange 
6 
B. 
High volume of data 
6 
IV. RISK ESTIMATION IN THE EVENT OF A PERSONAL DATA BREACH 
6 
V. 
MANAGEMENT OF THE RISK OF A PERSONAL DATA BREACH 
7 
VI. APPROPRIATE MEASURES BASED ON THE LEVEL OF RISK TO RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS 
9 
VII. DATA PROTECTION DELEGATES AND SECURITY OFFICERS 
11 
VIII. DATA PROTECTION POLICIES 
11 
IX. RECOMMENDED MEASURES 
12 
X. 
REFERENCES 
15
Page: 4 of 15  
I.  
OBJECTIVES AND RECIPIENTS  
This document is addressed to data controllers in Public Administrations and their data protection delegates. It is specifically oriented towards those data processing activities that, due to the high volume of personal data being processed and the permanent interconnection between systems of Public Administrations, may result in massive breaches of high-risk personal data for fundamental rights. It details the most relevant aspects regarding the management of such risks.  
This document does not intend to replicate or repeat what is established in the AEPD Guide for the notification of personal data breaches, nor in the Risk Management and Impact Assessment in personal data processing, but simply to specify the particular case of massive personal data breaches in the processing activities of Public Administrations.  
II.  
INTRODUCTION  
The processing of personal data that involves access to or communication of large repositories of data among multiple data controllers in Public Administrations (hereinafter, AAPP) is common in the current environment of digitalization and interconnectivity. Frequently, in these data interoperability models, other data sources or large data repositories from the private sector are integrated, which may include entities from strategically important sectors at the national level, such as telecommunications, finance, insurance, healthcare, Internet service providers, etc.  
The interconnection of systems and the establishment of permanent digital channels between administrations make these processing activities possible. Although these infrastructures do not have to be technically complex, they are often organizationally complex due to the involvement of multiple actors who may have different spheres of responsibility. The number of weak points, where potential failures or errors may occur, increases, and similarly, the possibility of a breach materializing also increases. In this scenario, the usual technical and organizational solutions, or minimum standards, may show their fragility, especially considering that an incident can produce a "domino effect," generating chain failures in security measures across different participants.  
On the other hand, the impact on rights and freedoms that a data breach could have in these environments, due to the potential effect on a large volume of the population, is greater than the sum of the impact it may have on each individual concerned. The measures that could be taken to minimize the impact when the number of affected individuals is low may prove insufficient when a large number of individuals are affected. The effects of a massive breach can generate a significant social impact, affect the obligations of availability and resilience established in Article 32.1.b of the General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter, GDPR), and ultimately, may generate or be used to foster distrust in services or in the structure of the State Administration.  
In summary, the analysis of the impact of massive data breaches on fundamental rights must take on a completely different dimension and new elements must be added.  

1 The term "controller" is used in the sense of GDPR controller as established in Article 4.7 of the GDPR. It should not be confused with the assignment of internal responsibilities within an entity (security officer, HR officer, etc.) nor with a natural person (an exceptional situation that does not apply to AAPP).
Page: 5 of 15  
factors when evaluating the joint effect on a large segment of the population2.  
As established in Article 24.1 of the GDPR, the measures that must be adopted in a processing operation to ensure and demonstrate compliance with the Regulation must take into account the scope, context, and purposes of the processing, particularly considering the extent of subjects affected by it and the risk it poses to fundamental rights.  
In this regard, the consequences of a massive breach of personal data in the realm of public administrations must be evaluated from a dual perspective: on one hand, regarding the fundamental rights of the individual, and on the other hand, concerning the impact it could have on the guarantee of public interest and its effects on the fundamental rights of society itself.  
When the data controllers are public sector entities that carry out processing to fulfill a mission of public interest or in the exercise of public powers or in compliance with a legal obligation, the possibility of a high social impact is very significant. Therefore, the level of risk that a personal data breach would entail in processing carried out as a result of data intercommunication between different controllers of this type is intrinsically high. In particular, the interconnection of infrastructures for access and data exchange multiplies the likelihood of a specific threat materializing.  
In these contexts, it is necessary to consider that the cumulative effect of the threats and vulnerabilities of the entire set of processing operations is often not known to all participants. Many are unaware that the materialization of a breach in a processing operation by one of the participants can affect the other processing operations of the entire group of participants. In such a scenario, it must be avoided that responsibility is diluted among the organizations involved in the processing, which must act in a coordinated manner in risk management both for the rights and freedoms of individuals and for the risk at the social level.  
This implies that privacy guarantees and security measures, both technical and organizational, appropriate to these complex scenarios3 must be applied, specifically to manage the high social impact concerning data protection and in a coordinated manner.  
III. HIGH COMPLEXITY PROCESSING  
The processing of personal data in public administrations is becoming increasingly complex in terms of the number of participants, technical means, and technologies employed. There are numerous cases in which multiple organizations participate in a personal data processing operation with different types of roles concerning data protection. The relationships between organizations can be the traditional ones from controller to processor, but with greater complexity due to the plurality of controllers involved regarding the articulation of the guarantees of Article 28 of the GDPR, concerning the generic or specific authorizations required for their intervention and the guarantees that must be provided. In many cases, this complexity increases due to the involvement of subprocessors for the provision of technologies. In many cases, multiple data communications can occur between organizations in which all of them are responsible for a different processing of that personal data. Situations of joint responsibility may also arise that require legal agreements.  

2 Guide for Risk Management and Impact Assessment in Personal Data Processing: “When there are different risk factors, it is necessary to interpret how these factors, considered independently, could interact with each other to increase the level of risk of the processing (cumulative risk factor), through the analysis of their dependencies and combined effects or the mutual interactions that exist between them.”  
3 Art. 24 GDPR
Page: 6 of 15  
specifics delineating the responsibility of each of the co-responsibles, without this implying a limitation or situations of a gap in responsibility.  
A.  
AUTOMATION OF DATA EXCHANGE  
The level of digitization of organizations allows for large-scale data exchange to be conducted in a very dynamic and automated manner without human intervention. In the nature of such processing, digital channels are established continuously and permanently. Some examples of these types of channels may include the publication and consumption of services on the Internet, on corporate networks, on semi-private networks between organizations, or on virtual private networks, neutral points, access portals, etc.  
B.  
HIGH VOLUME OF DATA  
Generally, the volume of personal data available in these infrastructures for data exchange can be very high. In some of them, the data of all citizens of an Autonomous Community, of Spain, or of Europe may be accessible. A vulnerability or weakness in any of these organizations could jeopardize all processing across all participating organizations, or even in other processing by those same organizations.  
IV.  
RISK ASSESSMENT IN THE EVENT OF A PERSONAL DATA BREACH  
Security measures are an obligation of means, but not of results. In this sense, the responsible parties must assume that personal data breaches may occur. Therefore, in any processing of personal data, it is necessary to assess the risk that a personal data breach could pose to the rights and freedoms of individuals. In high-complexity personal data processing, such as those described in the previous section, this aspect is especially relevant due to the impact it may have on fundamental rights at both the individual and social levels.  
In document WP218 “Statement on the role of a risk-based approach in data protection legal frameworks,” the Article 29 Working Party states:  
“The risk-based approach goes beyond a narrow ‘harm-based approach’ that focuses only on harm and must take into account all adverse effects, both potential and actual, assessed on a very broad scale ranging from the impact on the individual affected by the processing in question to a general social impact (for example, the loss of social trust).”  
From the above statement, it is concluded that it is necessary to manage risk and take measures with an approach that encompasses the entire context of the impact of data breaches, which implies, at least, a dual perspective:  
1. Manage the risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals.  
2. Manage the risk to society itself (or to a representative group of it).  

Judicial Power Communication: The Supreme Court establishes that the obligation of companies to adopt the necessary measures to guarantee the security of personal data cannot be considered an obligation of results.  
Unofficial translation of the original document in English.
Page: 7 of 15  
For example, a personal data breach affecting a significant percentage of the official identity database of a country has a social impact with consequences far greater than those that each individual may suffer separately. The large number of people affected would result in a breakdown of social trust in that means of identification, leading to a collapse in services and administrative management. In turn, the mitigation measures that would need to be deployed would be different and of a very different scale than those appropriate for mitigating the impact on a single individual.  
There are always risks associated with personal data breaches. However, these will be particularly significant in the processing of personal data carried out by large public and private organizations that are serving a large portion of citizens, and even more so if they are interconnected. It is very important to consider that the risk posed by personal data breaches in such processing does not depend so much on whether sensitive and/or specially protected categories of data are being processed, but rather on the consequences for fundamental rights that may arise from a compromise of the information.  
To estimate the impact that a personal data breach could have, one must consider the consequences that would arise from its realization. One way to do this is, before a breach occurs, to contemplate the possible scenarios of a compromise of personal data, determine their consequences, and evaluate how they affect the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, especially if they involve irreversible consequences for their fundamental rights.  
In light of the results of such analysis, additional measures must be determined to reduce the likelihood of a breach occurring. However, merely implementing measures to reduce the probability of breaches is not sufficient; experience shows that there will always be a residual probability of the breach materializing. Data controllers must accept that the possibility of personal data breaches always exists and that there is a residual probability of materialization that cannot be eliminated, which is why specific measures must be considered to eliminate, reduce, or reverse the impact on the data subject when it occurs.  
We must accept the reality that personal data breaches will occur, sooner or later. Therefore, in the face of the possible scenarios of materialization of different types of breaches, we must find answers, at least, to the following questions from the design of the processing and prior to its implementation:  
• What personal and social impact could a personal data breach have if it materializes?  
• What data protection measures should be implemented a priori to minimize the personal and social impact that a materialized breach could produce?  
• What response measures must be foreseen and executed a posteriori, once the breach has occurred, to minimize the personal and social impact?  
V.  
MANAGEMENT OF THE RISK OF A PERSONAL DATA BREACH  
The management of the risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects and the impact assessment for data protection (hereinafter, DPIA) are obligations of the data controller, according to Articles 24 and 35 of the GDPR. The controller has the duty to ensure a proper assessment of the risk to fundamental rights and the  
6 News about the alleged data leak from the National Registry of Persons (Renaper) in Argentina.  
7 For example, the compromise of the address data of a file of surviving victims of gender-based violence has a high impact on fundamental rights.
Page: 8 of 15  
selection, execution, review, and updating of appropriate measures to ensure compliance.  
The data controller may receive assistance from third parties to fulfill its obligations, and in many cases, it must seek such assistance. Article 28.3.f of the GDPR establishes the obligation for processors to provide such assistance when appropriate. Specifically, the GDPR states that the processor “shall assist the controller in ensuring compliance with the obligations laid down in Articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the processing and the information available to the processor.” In the case at hand, the processors and, where applicable, sub-processors, must assist the controllers in fulfilling their obligations concerning the management of risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons. This assistance may even extend to the preparation of impact assessments in the context of the services that the processors will provide, in order to integrate them into the Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) of the data processing by the controller.  
On the other hand, the principle of proactive accountability, or “accountability,” can hardly be fulfilled if the technical means employed to implement it (its nature) do not themselves have the appropriate guarantees, that is, they are not “accountable” or demonstrable with the appropriate objective evidence. Therefore, the controller will have the obligation to demand the necessary information and collaboration from processors and technology providers to ensure and be able to demonstrate compliance with the regulation.  
Given that it is a very complex environment, in which there may be several areas of responsibility, collaboration among all parties involved is essential when managing the risks associated with personal data processing. The application of privacy guarantees and security measures evaluated and implemented in the entities involved in a processing operation, but independently among them, may lead to a loss of effectiveness in the protection of fundamental rights. Regardless of the roles of the parties involved, the measures and guarantees for data protection must be implemented transversally through the cooperation of the organizations involved.  
Effective and efficient data protection will require a coordinated effort and a combined approach to the solution that complies with the GDPR. The DPIA and the solutions that manage the limitations and risks to rights and freedoms must arise from a common effort, and its conclusion must be unique.  
For example, in a situation of data communication between public administration controllers, the measures and guarantees must be established both by the entities that communicate or allow access to the data (data providers) and by the entities that receive or consult the data (data recipients), regardless of the roles they adopt concerning the GDPR. The existence of a public interest or a legal obligation to communicate or allow access to the data does not imply that such communication or access can be made without adopting the appropriate measures. An approach in which the data provider establishes a communication channel and relies exclusively on the measures of the recipient to protect access to the data leaves the confidentiality of the data completely exposed in the event of a breach of the systems of the data recipient.  

The nature of the processing defines how it is implemented: automated or non-automated, the different operations into which it is divided, the parties involved, the possibility and type of processors and sub-processors, the technologies it relies on, whether it is on-premises or in the cloud, etc.
Page: 9 of 15  
VI.  
APPROPRIATE MEASURES AT THE LEVEL OF RISK FOR RIGHTS AND  
FREEDOMS  
Article 24 of the GDPR establishes that controllers must adopt appropriate measures to ensure and demonstrate that their processing complies with data protection regulations. The appropriate measures will depend on the following characteristics of the processing:  
•  
its nature: how it is implemented,  
•  
its context: the environment in which it is implemented,  
•  
its scope: the extent of the processing in terms of categories of data, data subjects, number of affected individuals, frequency and granularity of data, etc.,  
•  
its purposes, and  
•  
the risks to the rights and freedoms of the identified data subjects.  
The analysis of a potential scenario of personal data breaches assumes that security guarantees have failed. Therefore, its management cannot be based solely on the realm of cybersecurity; rather, the adoption of specific measures for data protection by design and by default will be essential, as well as measures for effective management of the consequences of the breach aimed at protecting the fundamental rights of individuals.  
The technical and organizational measures adopted must be specifically aimed at minimizing the identified risks to the rights and freedoms of potential personal data breaches. This implies that the controller must assess the risks that may arise, design measures aimed at minimizing their probability and impact, and determine to what extent such measures are appropriately managing the specific risks in a dynamic process.  
The GDPR does not require a simple accumulation of actions but demands those that objectively allow for a reduction in impacts on fundamental rights and/or the probabilities of their occurrence, particularly those aimed at managing personal data breaches. Accumulating measures without knowing what problems they solve, how they interact with each other, and what their actual effectiveness is, in addition to not managing the risks, can create additional vulnerabilities. Therefore, in the case of such processing, all these additional measures must be identified within the framework of the DPIA concerning the individual and social risks to the fundamental rights of individuals and, if necessary, carry out the appropriate prior consultation with the supervisory authority if required (Articles 35 and 36 GDPR).  
The appropriate measures must be selected and implemented from the design of the processing to ensure that all risk contexts for rights and freedoms are considered. It should be noted that some measures will be more effective in preventing or mitigating the direct impact on individuals, while other measures will primarily address the social impact on fundamental rights.  
It is necessary to apply a high level of data protection by default. That is to say, in this context, traditional access control strategies with user and password (no matter how complex they may be) are insufficient; it is necessary to apply additional measures appropriate to the risks while considering data protection by default.  
A basic layer of security measures such as access control, exploitation, monitoring of external resources, protection of cloud services, system monitoring, recovery plans, etc., is absolutely necessary but not sufficient. They must be complemented with measures aimed at avoiding additional risks.
Page: 10 of 15  
identified, in particular, to mitigate the social impact in case the risks materialize. In the specific case of cybersecurity measures, they must also be aligned with the new cybersecurity strategies known as “zero trust” or “least privilege.”  
The least privilege strategy requires:  
•  
Precise definition of user roles and their access needs.  
•  
Strict identity verification for each person and device attempting to access a network resource, including services that involve the processing of personal data.  
•  
Access with minimum privileges and minimal data exposure.  
•  
Assuming breaches: limiting damage and micro-segmenting access, also temporarily.  
The traditional model of perimeter protection and reliance on internal users or devices is insufficient and has proven ineffective in preventing personal data breaches in recent years. From the perspective of proactive responsibility and data protection by default, it is also clearly inadequate.  
The use of clouds, access by providers and other organizations from outside the organization through virtual private networks or also from within, and ultimately the delocalization of data does not allow for the delimitation or definition of a specific perimeter to protect. There have been frequent cases where the compromise of credentials for cloud productivity systems, or access to corporate VPNs, ends up producing personal data breaches with a high impact on the rights and freedoms of individuals and also with a high social impact.  
It is worth noting that the ENS (Royal Decree 311/2022, of May 3, which regulates the National Security Scheme), which is aligned with the “least privilege” strategy, applies to information systems of public administrations and any private entity that provides services to a public administration. For example, the ENS is also mandatory for the information systems of private entities acting as processors or sub-processors of public administrations.  
In its Article 3, the ENS recalls the application of data protection regulations to those systems that participate in the processing of personal data. This includes risk analysis specifically oriented towards data protection and, where applicable, impact assessment. It also indicates that the measures to be implemented as a result of these analyses will prevail in case they are aggravated compared to those determined by the ENS. The GDPR does not limit such measures to those prescribed in the ENS but to those that, in each case, may be necessary for the protection of the rights and freedoms of individuals.  
Similarly, Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and Guarantee of Digital Rights, in its first additional provision refers to the ENS for the determination of those that must be implemented in the case of personal data processing to prevent its loss, alteration, or unauthorized access, understanding this as a minimum criterion since ultimately the measures determined by the ENS must be increased if the result of the risk analysis in data protection so determines.  
For further specificity, the ENS in point 5.7.1 of its Annex II determines that when the system processes personal data, the security officer will collect the data protection requirements set by the controller or by the processor, with the advice of the data protection officer, and that are necessary to implement in the systems according to the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the same,
Page: 11 of 15  
as well as the risks to rights and freedoms in accordance with the provisions of Articles 24 and 32 of the GDPR, and in accordance with the data protection impact assessment if it has been carried out. This measure is also applicable to any category of system.  
Finally, we refer to Article 22 of the National Interoperability Framework approved by Royal Decree 4/2010, which refers to the ENS.  
VII.  
DATA PROTECTION OFFICERS AND SECURITY RESPONSIBLE PARTIES  
The role of data protection officers (hereinafter, DPOs) is key in cases of processing of this type, as derived from Article 39 of the GDPR. The DPOs of the various controllers must be coordinated and actively participate from the very conception of the processing, in its design, implementation, and also while the processing is operational. This includes participation in the management of incidents that may result in a personal data breach.  
The advice of the DPOs is fundamental, both in the initial design phases of the processing, in determining applicable measures, and in periodic reviews to determine the application of new measures based on new risks.  
Furthermore, mechanisms must be established that articulate this participation and allow information to escalate to the DPOs when an incident occurs that may result in a breach.  
They must be consulted and taken into account for compliance with the obligations of the controllers in cases of personal data breaches, including the risk assessment of a breach, its management and response, and also the notification to the supervisory authority and communication to the affected individuals in accordance with the provisions of data protection regulations.  
DPOs must work closely with security responsible parties, and this is especially important in the event of a security incident to be able to advise on the measures to be taken to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subjects both in the short term, within the framework of a personal data breach, and in the long term, to implement privacy measures that minimize the impact on data subjects or society as a whole.  
In short, having the advice of the DPO is necessary for the controllers to fulfill their obligations, including gathering all the information, analyzing it, and drawing relevant conclusions to respond to the breach, documenting it, notifying it, and communicating with the affected individuals if necessary.  
VIII. DATA PROTECTION POLICIES  
In the face of these complex scenarios, it is necessary for the governance and information policy of the entity to include a data protection policy. A data protection policy is more than a document; it is an effective, efficient, and executive way of acting in the design and management of the various processing activities. This data protection policy must be coordinated at a high level with the participants in the processing, especially concerning:  
• The intervention and coordination of the DPOs.  

9 Security incidents can be cyber incidents, or may not have a “cyber” component. Security is more than cybersecurity.
Page: 12 of 15  
• The implementation of risk management and impact assessment.  
• The selection of privacy and security measures.  
• The management of incidents and their communication among participants.  
• The review and updating of measures that ensure compliance with the GDPR.  
• The continuity and contingency plans.  
• Communication (Article 34 of the GDPR) and attention to the interested parties.  
Furthermore, cooperation between data protection authorities and those that may have governance functions regarding treatments to which these guidelines are applicable is essential.  
IX.  
RECOMMENDED MEASURES  
Below are some of the preventive, detection, response, and review and supervision measures that could be implemented. This list is not exhaustive or mandatory in its entirety, but these are measures to consider in each case.  
Some examples of preventive measures are:  
• Having a coordination framework for the DPOs of the involved entities.  
• Conducting a joint analysis of the implications of treatments involving different entities.  
• Having data protection policies, as indicated above, coordinated among the participants in the treatment.  
• Conducting joint exercises that present scenarios of personal data breaches.  
• Categorizing data that may at some point be considered of special sensitivity.  
• Identifying sets of data of greater impact that should not be accessible by exclusively automated means.  
• Increasing human intervention in access management.  
• Implementing policies for the deletion or blocking of data that should not be in production systems.  
• Studying strategies for minimizing data accessible via the Internet: anonymization, pseudonymization, reduction of data granularity or precision, restriction of fields/attributes, aggregation, addition of noise, etc.  
• In accordance with access policies, establishing minimization strategies in the aforementioned sense.  
• Implementing "least privilege" strategies, with protection against potential attacks from interconnected systems also based on the "least privilege" strategy.  
• Establishing monitoring parameters or that involve additional access requirements for the consultation of data whose personal characteristics may pose additional social harm.  
• Including in business continuity and resilience plans, backup copies of data and also continuity of treatments.  
• Protecting backup copies with the same level of protection applicable to data and systems in production.  

Page: 13 of 15  
• Having backup copies in independent and separate systems from production ones.  
• Applying network and system segmentation strategies, including protection of exposed services, through DMZ or other appropriate measures.  
• Implementing isolation strategies between systems that prevent the spread of ransomware throughout the organization.  
• Keeping the systems of the service infrastructure and interoperability updated without known vulnerabilities (servers, virtual machines, cloud access, etc.)  
• Avoiding the use of meaningful usernames, with predictable patterns and/or other identifiers such as NIF, DNI, or emails that may also be predictable.  
• Having a written and implemented updated password management policy, including the prohibition of using weak passwords and/or those compromised in other personal data breaches.  
• Prohibiting the use of generic organizational credentials (the same for multiple users of an organization). The end user accessing data, along with the purpose/justification of the access/query, must permeate down to the service that exposes data so that it can apply restrictive access policies.  
• Having and applying differentiated access policies to data by categories of responsible parties, users, and treatments.  
• Adding a second and/or third factor of authentication, without this necessarily implying biometric treatments or on mobile devices.  
Some examples of detection measures are:  
• Establishing quotas or limits on queries per user/account and also by organization, in accordance with their legitimate use, including the monitoring of such accesses.  
• Specifically managing queries/access from geolocated IPs in geographical areas outside the scope of the organizations or unusual ones, IPs based on anonymization networks, or compromised IPs.  
• Implementing systems that allow for the detection and mitigation of enumeration/brute force attacks.  
• Implementing systems that detect failed access attempts to data, such as systematic queries to DNI or other data that result in failed attempts.  
• Systems for detecting data exfiltration situations.  
• Implementing early warning systems that allow those with obligations to act to know about the attack as soon as possible and in its early phases.  
• Using detection systems based on honey-pots.  
Some response measures that must be foreseen:  
• Having incident response plans that include the management and rapid response to personal data breaches.  
• Having procedures that allow security incidents to escalate quickly to both the DPO and the decision-making circles of the organization.  
• Establishing agile, effective, and proven communication channels for breaches among the participating entities.
Page: 14 of 15  
•  
Procedure for notifying personal data breaches to the competent authorities that specifies all fundamental aspects. For example, the data controller must know in advance which Supervisory Authority to notify, what events will trigger the execution of the procedure, who should make the notification to the supervisory authority, and provide the necessary technical or other means to notify.  
•  
Procedure and resources for communication to the affected individuals, which outlines in each situation how a massive breach will be communicated to the affected parties, under what circumstances such communication will occur, the medium for communication, deadlines to effectively protect the rights of the affected individuals, recommendations for the affected individuals based on different breach scenarios, situations that may justify delaying the communication, etc.  
•  
In situations of significant social impact, the use of a public statement may be justified, which could be a joint statement among all the controllers involved in the breach. In some situations, it could be subsequently expanded with individual communications if necessary.  
•  
Notification, in the case of a cyber incident, to the corresponding CERT and response to the cyber incident following the instructions of the CERT.  
•  
Reporting of the facts to police/judicial authorities in case of unlawful acts.  
Some measures for supervision and review are:  
•  
Established procedures to determine changes in context for controllers and treatments of similar nature: breaches that occur, technological changes, new national, European, and international regulations, social or political evolution, geostrategic factors, etc.  
•  
Establishment of effective communication channels between the involved entities regarding the previous events.  
•  
Periodic meetings between the DPOs and security officers of the involved entities.  
•  
Privacy audits (based on changes in the nature, context, extent, purposes, and risks of the processing art. 24.1) and security audits (the latter being regular art. 32.1d) in services that expose personal data at the level of:  
o Impact assessment of the common data communication point.  
o Reevaluation of risk to individual and social rights and freedoms.  
o Degree of implementation of privacy guarantees and security measures.  
o Penetration testing.  
o Social engineering attacks.  
o Level of response of organizational measures.  
o Procedures for managing security incidents and personal data breaches (preventive and reactive).  

In the GDPR, the requirement for data protection audits is not explicitly mentioned, but it is an implicit requirement of the principle of proactive accountability, as it is an essential tool for compliance with Articles 24 and 32 of the GDPR. Regarding security audits, the ENS establishes the obligation to conduct them at least every two years, when there are substantial changes in information systems, and before the production deployment of new software elements.  

Page: 15 of 15  

X. REFERENCES  
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council.  
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on Personal Data Protection and the guarantee of digital rights.  
Risk management and impact assessment in personal data processing.  
Guide for the notification of personal data breaches.  
WP218 - Statement on the role of a risk-based approach in data protection legal frameworks – WP art. 28  
Royal Decree 311/2022, of May 3, which regulates the National Security Scheme.