1/18

 Procedure No.: PS/00348/2020

RESOLUTION R/00552/2020 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00348/2020, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., given the complaint filed
by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 15, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00348/2020

935-200320

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for the Protection of

Data and based on the following:

FACTS

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated May 31, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against Vodafone Spain, S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (in
hereinafter, the claimed or Vodafone).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that a portability of the
telephone ***TELÉFONO.1 from Movistar to Vodafone. That the claimant warned
both companies that it was a fraudulent act since she had not done
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

that request, but someone had usurped their data to process said
portability.

However, the portability took place on April 4, 2019 and has not

got a response from the aforementioned operators.

Request that the telephone number return to Movistar and that Vodafone cancel the
data of the claimant, and that the person usurping their data be sanctioned
processed the portability through the Vodafone office located on the street
***ADDRESS 1.

And, among other things, it provides the following documentation:

 Copy of claim sheet against Vodafone.

 Copy of “Fraud Team Complaint Form” signed and dated
04/12/2019 where the Vodafone logo appears, the facts mentioned and
the following manifestations:

o That he is not a Vodafone customer.

o That the line belonged to the husband.

o That the claimant requests that her line ***TELÉFONO.1 return to

Movistar.

 Copy of letter addressed to Vodafone sent by the claimant dated 10

April 2019 where it appears, among others:

o That he went to the Vodafone store at ***ADDRESS.2 on the 3rd of
april. That he did not receive any collaboration or clarification and the portability
It was carried out as planned, on April 4, 2019.

o Cancel portability and delete your data.

o That he is not and has not been a Vodafone customer.

 Copy of claim in the OMIC dated 04/08/2019 being the claimed

Vodafone.

 Copy of claim in the OMIC dated 04/08/2019 being the claimed

Movistar requesting that they correct the error and carry out a retroportability.

 Copy of certificate No. ***ATESTADO.1 dated April 12, 2019 and signed

by the complainant.

 Copy of Vodafone's response to the claim filed with the
OMIC where it is stated that "Once the facts that it exposes in
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

3/18

name of Ms. A.A.A., we inform you that a request for
portability on April 2, 2019 with change of owner through store
***STORE.1, for more information you can contact them directly.”

 Copy of the Claim filed with the Secretary of State for

Telecommunications and their resolution.

 Copy of the Vodafone Resolution of 12/10/2019.

 Resolution of the Secretary of State for Digital Advancement of 11/15/2019.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant / of the facts and documents of which he has
had knowledge of this Agency, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection
proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, it is confirmed

that the data controller is the claimed party.

In addition, the following extremes are noted:

On July 9, 2019, the complaint was transferred to Vodafone
España, S.A.U., in the proceedings with reference E/06764/2019. The notification is
performed electronically through notific@. No response received.

On July 9, 2019, the complaint was transferred to Telefónica
Móviles España, S.A.U., in the proceedings with reference E/06764/2019. The
notification is made electronically through notific@.

On July 24, 2019, Telefónica Móviles España, S.A.U. refer to this

Agency the following information and statements:

1. That on April 2, 2019 they receive a portability request from Vodafone

as receiving operator regarding the line ***TELEPHONE.1

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

2. That as a consequence, they send an SMS notification to the
complainant indicating that the portability will be carried out on April 4,
2019 offering you the possibility of contacting the
***PHONE.2 if you do not want to change companies.

3. That the complainant states that she has not requested portability by providing
a contact number to request the cancellation being the receiving operator,
in this case Vodafone, who has to cancel it.

4. That they did not receive any communication from the receiving operator
informing of the annulment of the portability so that on April 4th
carried out portability.

5. That the complainant contacted them to request retroportability
indicating that the change of operator had been made without their consent.

6. That, according to the portability operation, the cancellation process must be
launched by the receiving operator at the request of the client. That
This procedure was requested repeatedly, but was denied by
Vodafone, as the line does not appear, in the aforementioned company, in the name of the
complainant, consequently appearing as a cause of denial of the
retroportability, that the fiscal identifier does not correspond to the MSISIDN
entered (IDENT).

Provide a screenshot where it appears:

 The title “Consult Portability”

 A record with the data:

o Application date: 04/04/2019 11:06:00

or MSISDN: ***PHONE.1

o The fields corresponding to name and surname contain the

of the complainant.

o Status Code: Registration denied.

o Cause Status: IDENT

1. That the complainant filed a claim with the OMIC of the City Council of
***LOCATION.1 dated April 8, 2019, regarding which the
written response dated June 20, 2019.

2. That the portability request was made from Vodafone as the operator
recipient, not from TME as donor operator, so in the event of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

having suffered identity theft, it is in the receiving operator where
they understand the incident has occurred.

On November 25, 2019, Vodafone Spain, S.A.U. refer to this

Agency the following information and statements:

1. That there is a contract dated April 4, 2019, date of portability,
made with Vodafone together with a request for change of ownership, appearing
currently said line in the systems in someone else's name.

2. That the operation was carried out in compliance with all the requirements
appropriate and security measures to be considered correct portability and
not fraudulent.

3. That the complainant must ensure the security of her personal data and

take precautions so that a third party does not have access to them.

4. That currently there is no data related to the complainant in the

Vodafone systems and databases.

A copy of the letter addressed to the complainant dated November 21 is provided
of 2019.

Screenshots of the Vodafone systems are provided where it appears
among other data:



ticket ***TICKET.1

o creation date: 08/27/2019

or the text “Comments: As of 04/04/2019, it is requested
portability of the service ***PHONE.1 in the name of A.A.A.
with DNI ***NIF.1 (claimant and former owner of the service)
but with a change of ownership in favor of B.B.B. ***Current NIF.2
service owner.

The owner A.A.A. indicates that it has been without your consent and
requests that his number be returned to him so that he can carry it to
your previous operator.

We check that the service contract appears in docuweb
with the data for the claimant's portability request
A.A.A..”

 “Vodafone Customer Interaction Manager” screen where the
DNI number of the complainant in the NIF section within the subwindow
of "Search Criteria" which also contains the message "There is no
results for those search criteria”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

On February 5, 2020, Vodafone Spain, S.A.U. refer to this

Agency the following information and statements:

1. That the contract was signed through the distributor ***STORE.1

A copy of the contract signed by the client and dated April 2, is provided.
2019 where it is stated, among other data:

 Name of the point of sale: ***STORE.1 with CIF B76640135

 In the “Client/Hiring Company” section:

or NIF: ***NIF.2

o Name: B.B.B.

o Surnames: B.B.B.

 In the "Change of Owner" section:

o Name and surnames of the former holder: the name and surnames

of the complainant.

o NIF: contains the NIF of the complainant.

o Contact phone: ***PHONE.1

There is no signature in the box entitled “Former owner signature*”

 In the “Portability” section:

o Mobile number: ***PHONE.1

o Donor operator: Movistar

 There is a note at the bottom of the contract with the text:

“Data marked with an asterisk (*) are required. The client
declares that the information provided is correct and that he has read, knows and
accepts in its entirety the rates that have been delivered, the
service information that has been provided, as well as the
conditions contained in this document, which govern your
relationship with Vodafone. “

1. That, at all times, the person who completed the information that allowed the
portability was identified as Ms. A.A.A., being provided in that sense the
identity document that allowed the processing of portability.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

2. That Vodafone acted under the guidelines stipulated in the Security Policy
internal for the contracting of lines in the contracting modality through
distributor.

A copy of the Security Policy is provided in which:

 It includes, among other things, the following text:

“When by process it is appropriate to refer the client to a store
Vodafone and the holder cannot attend in person, they may do so
person on your behalf.

If the management to be carried out requires passing the Security Policy, the
Non-holder person who attends, must provide the access code of
customer service or all the following data of the owner:

ID

Billing Address

Last 4 digits of the bank account (if you have a direct debit bill)

Except SIM changes. In the sim changes in the store it is
It is mandatory for the holder to come with the Identity Document (DNI-
NIE) original to be able to change the SIM.”

 There is a table of scenarios of "When" to apply Security Policies

Security and what Security Policy is needed in each scenario.

1. That when asked in request for information about the “documentation
collected in the contract to prove the identity of the new holder of the
line and to prove the identity of the claimant.” Vodafone answers:

“The Agency requests from Vodafone "Copy of documentation collected in the
hiring to prove the identity of the new holder of the line and to
prove the identity of the claimant. According to the documentation
has been able to collect my represented regarding the portability object of
analysis in this request, it corresponds to the contract on
which has been previously provided in this writing as Document I.”

2. That they have verified that there are no portability cancellation requests
by the complainant before it occurred on date 4
April 2019. However, they have verified that there is an interaction of the
day April 4, 2019 in which there is an attempt to carry out a portability the
which is canceled because the data does not match. That the reason for the rejection is “NIF
of the Portability Request does not coincide with the one that appears in the File of the
Client"

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

3. That on August 20, 2019 they received a claim filed by the
complainant before the SETSI body. That they proceeded to answer the SETSI
stating that the portability of the service claimed had been carried out
complying with the security filters in force and that despite the complainant
could request the portability of the service claimed to the operator again
what you wanted

A letter addressed to the User Service Office of
Telecommunications dated August 27, 2019, stating as
claim ***CLAIM.1

4. That on December 3, 2019 they received a new claim
filed by the complainant before the SETSI body. who proceeded to
reply to the complainant.

A copy of the letter dated December 10, 2019 and addressed to the
complainant stating:

“We are writing to you in compliance with the estimated resolution in your favor,
with file number ***CLAIM.1

We wish to inform you that, as established in said resolution, the
Mrs. Peña can request the portability of the claimed service to the operator that
you wish, you must provide in the application the data of the holder in Vodafone B.B.B.
with DNI NIF.2 which are the ones that appear in the contract that we attach

At the time of portability to another operator, you can request a change of
desired owner.

On the other hand, we indicate that there is no record of billing issued in the name of Ms.
A.A.A. Therefore, no type of adjustment is appropriate in this regard.”

Resolution of the SETSI, dated November 15, 2019, where it is
recognizes the claimant's right to obtain immediate withdrawal from the service not
requested, as well as not to pay the invoices that may have been issued by Vodafone.

Likewise, the claimant's right to return to the operator will be recognized.
of origin, and regarding the change of ownership, not carried out by the operator,
estimate the claim, and the operator must proceed to definitively manage
the change of ownership allowing the claimant to return with his operator of
source.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

         Article 58 of the RGPD, “Powers of Attorney”, says:

                 “2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following powers
corrections listed below:

(…)

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

(...)

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period.

(…)

i) impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, depending on the circumstances of the case
particular

(…)”

III

The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that must govern the
treatment of personal data and mentions among them that of "lawfulness, loyalty and
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

transparency". The provision provides:

"1. The personal data will be:

a) Treated in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the

interested party (<<legality, loyalty and transparency>>);”

          Article 6 of the RGPD, "Legality of the treatment", details in its section 1 the
assumptions in which the processing of third party data is considered lawful:

         "1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met
conditions:

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their data
personal for one or more specific purposes;

b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at the request of the latter of measures
pre-contractual;

(…)”

The infraction for which the claimed entity is held responsible is
typified in article 83 of the RGPD that, under the heading “General conditions for
the imposition of administrative fines”, states:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

 The Organic Law 3/2018, on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of the
Digital Rights (LOPDGDD) in its article 72, under the heading "Infringements
considered very serious” provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (U.E.)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in it and, in
particularly the following:

            (…)

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

IV

The documentation in the file offers evidence that the
claimed, violated article 6.1 of the RGPD, since it carried out the treatment of the
personal data of the claimant without having any legitimacy to do so.

The operator Vodafone has carried out the portability of the line of the

claimant, without standing to do so.

The owner of the line, the claimant, warned Vodafone that it was a
fraudulent fact, since she had not made the request for portability, but
someone had usurped their data to process said portability.

Despite warning that it was a fraudulent act on several occasions, the

portability was carried out on April 4, 2019.

Well, in the contract provided by Vodafone, it was possible to verify in the
"Change of Owner" section: Name, surnames and NIF of the claimant (former
headline). However, and this is essential, there is no signature in the box titled
“Old owner signature.” That is, it is not duly signed and therefore the
complainant has not given his consent.

Based on the foregoing, in the case analyzed, it remains in

questioned the diligence used by the respondent.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

Respect for the principle of legality that is in the essence of the fundamental right
of protection of personal data requires that it be accredited that the
responsible for the treatment displayed the essential diligence to prove that
extreme. Failure to act in this way -and this Agency, who is responsible for ensuring
for compliance with the regulations governing the right to data protection of
personal character - the result would be to empty the content of the principle of legality.

v

          In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, precepts that indicate:

                 “Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of fines
administrative actions under this article for violations of this
Regulation indicated in sections 4, 9 and 6 are in each individual case
effective, proportionate and dissuasive.”

         “Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of
each individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question
as well as the number of stakeholders affected and the level of damage and
damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor
to alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the
treatment, taking into account the technical or organizational measures that have
applied under articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infraction committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the
treatment;

  f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to put
remedying the breach and mitigating the possible adverse effects of the breach;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement,
in particular if the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, in such
case, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been
previously ordered against the person in charge or the person in charge in question
in relation to the same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms
certificates approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the
case, such as financial benefits realized or losses avoided, direct
or indirectly, through infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,

“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

         "two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of

personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the

commission of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the

infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction of the procedure, in order to set the amount of the sanction of fine to
impose in the present case, the claimed party is considered responsible for
an infringement typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, in an initial assessment,
The following factors are considered concurrent.

As aggravating the following:

-

The intentionality or negligence in the infringement (article 83.2 b).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

- Basic personal identifiers are affected (name, data

bank accounts, the line identifier) (article 83.2 g).

This is why it is considered appropriate to adjust the sanction to be imposed on the
claimed and set it at the amount of €70,000 for the infringement of article 6.1 of the
GDPR.

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

1.

START SANCTION PROCEDURE against Vodafone Spain, S.A.U.,
with NIF A80907397, for the alleged violation of article 6.1. GDPR
typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

2. APPOINT D. C.C.C. as instructor. and as secretary to Ms. D.D.D.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of 1
October, of the Legal Regime of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

3.

INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its attached documentation, the
information requirements that the General Subdirectorate of Inspection of
Data sent to the claimed entity in the preliminary investigation phase and
their respective acknowledgments of receipt.

4. THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public, the sanction that could correspond would be 70,000 euros
(sixty thousand euros), without prejudice to what results from the instruction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

5. NOTIFY this agreement to Vodafone España, S.A.U., with NIF
A80907397, granting a hearing period of ten business days to
to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient. In your statement of allegations you must provide your NIF and the
procedure number that appears in the heading of this
document.

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, in the event that the
sanction to be imposed was a fine, it may recognize its responsibility within the
term granted for the formulation of allegations to this initial agreement; it
which will entail a reduction of 20% of the sanction to be imposed in
the present procedure. With the application of this reduction, the sanction would be
established at 56,000 euros, resolving the procedure with the imposition of this
sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 56,000 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 42,000 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts

indicated above, 56,000 euros or 42,000 euros, you must make it effective
by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency at CAIXABANK Bank,
S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in
the heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

 : On November 4, 2020, the claimant has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
the sanction in the amount of 42,000 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:
"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations.

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00348/2020, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

936-031219
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

