
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    08/27/2019
                                Press release: Best of data protection 2019 "The number of complaints and consultations has increased enormously and has stabilized at a high level," sums up Prof. Dr. Dieter Kugelmann, the state commissioner for data protection and freedom of information in Rhineland-Palatinate (LfDI). On August 27, 2019, as part of the press conference "Best of Data Protection 2019 - The most interesting data protection cases of the LfDI from the past 12 months", he discussed the highlights of his work in the past year with representatives of the press. The case numbers of the state representative show how the field of activity of the LfDI has changed as a result of the effectiveness of the General Data Protection Regulation and how the number of business transactions has increased. Complaints from data subjects, requests for advice from those responsible and reports of data breaches have increased significantly in both the public and non-public areas. In particular, the increasing number of complaints under the General Data Protection Regulation means that effective enforcement is the focus of the LfDI. "Unlike in the past, every complaint must now be effectively remedied with a binding decision. These binding decisions by the LfDI, which are sometimes made in lengthy administrative proceedings, can be challenged in court by both the person responsible and the person concerned. 12 court proceedings are already pending and I expect a future increase", states the LfDI Prof. Dr. ball man fixed. The data processing against which the complaints are directed is of a diverse nature and affects the entire spectrum of life circumstances. For example, the unauthorized use of a cell phone number by a doctor to contact a patient with amorous intentions was the subject of a complaint to the state commissioner. A police officer in Rhineland-Palatinate also used the cell phone number obtained from a witness to make private contact. A corresponding fine was imposed on him by the LfDI.
Video surveillance in Rhineland-Palatinate continues to be a mass phenomenon and the associated complaints. During an inspection of a shopping center in Montabaur, video surveillance systems were registered in numerous shops, for which there was insufficient information and information required by the General Data Protection Regulation. Cases in which the LfDI detects violations in the processing of particularly sensitive data are also closely followed. This applies, for example, to ongoing proceedings against a large medical facility in which patient data was not adequately protected against incorrect processing, or a case in which an employer unnecessarily requested a large amount of sensitive personal data from applicants as part of the application process. "Personal data is processed in many different ways in the digital society and so our field of activity is still diverse. The effective protection of personal data can only be guaranteed with effective official supervision. In addition to great expertise, this also includes sufficient resources to carry out the tasks of complaint processing, enforcement and also the task of advising those responsible," summarizes the LfDI Prof. Dr. Kugelman.
Further information:
Table TemplatePresentation Best of Data Protection 2019
                                return
                            



