 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRESS RELEASE

February 26, 2019

 

 

  School lessons of a different kind or data protection officers conquer the schools

or privacy advocates and students teach and learn together

 

 
School lessons of a different kind were organized in February 2019 by the employees
employees of the data protection supervisory authorities in various federal
countries offered.
 
This is not an editorial oversight -
were actually part of a joint transnational action and
in cooperation with the professional association of data protection officers in Germany
(BvD) e.V. Pupils are familiar with the topic of data protection
did.
 
With the entry into force of the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) on 25.
As of May 2018, Article 57 Paragraph 1 lit. b DS-GVO is a legal mandate
all data protection supervisory authorities across Europe have to face.
 
Thus, for the first time, the obligation to protect the rights of children is
Europe-wide valid legal basis for data protection.
 
Irrespective of this legal requirement and this novelty in the legal
landscape, the protection of children and young people cannot be overestimated.
be settled, since these are the most vulnerable in our society
shaft. Data protection not only means protection of personal freedom, but
especially child and youth protection, according to the state commissioner for data
protection of Baden-Württemberg, Dr. Stefan Brink. As a father, he is the child and
Protection of minors is a major concern. He pays particular attention to
not to ban, but to make the children and young people strong so that they
Recognize risks and thus be able to act consciously and
to make informed decisions.
 
Just in time for Safer Internet Day, the initiative "Data protection goes to school"
of the BvD thus active support from the supervisory authorities in Baden-
Württemberg, Bavaria, Lower Saxony and Rhineland-Palatinate.
 
The abstract topic "data
protection” through the numerous short video clips contained in the lecture.

Königstraße 10 a 70173 Stuttgart Telephone 0711 615541-0 Fax 0711 615541-15 poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de poststelle@lfdi.bwl.de-mail.de

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de PGP fingerprint: E4FA 428C B315 2248 83BB F6FB 0FC3 48A6 4A32 5962

The information on the collection of personal data according to Article 13 DS-GVO can be found on our homepage

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenschutz/).

 

- 2 -

 
During the events, the students questioned the limits of Big, for example
Data, Smart Home and also the use and data transfer when using
Messenger services at the price of disclosing private information and data
ten critical.
 
Convenience versus privacy quickly became a big issue.
 
It became clear that free offers should be emphatically questioned. is
the messenger service offered free of charge actually free of charge? From which
Reason many companies offer loyalty cards and associated discounts and
loyalty rewards?
 
It quickly became clear that nowadays no company should give anything away.
ken has.
 
It became surprisingly clear for the lecturers that the "data power
ke” Facebook has almost no meaning in this age group – use Facebook
only the adults, i.e. my parents or my grandparents. And who wants to
a friend request from his aunt – this is the feedback from the students
Pupils.
 
The enthusiastic feedback from the young people, the teachers, the
principals, the lecturers of the respective
supervisory authorities and the press coverage in the regional daily newspapers have
made it clear how important and sensible it is to help children and young people deal with
to raise awareness of their personal data on the Internet and what challenges
it also represents a requirement to use a target group-specific word
to explain sweetheart.
 
Specifically, in Baden-Württemberg alone, a total of around 600 pupils and
channels in Stuttgart, Esslingen, Ditzingen, Walldorf, Bad Friedrichshall, Ludwigsburg,
Ettlingen, Lorch and Pforzheim with the joint and transnational acti-
achieved by the supervisory authorities in cooperation with the BvD.
 
However, it also became clear that the demand in the schools is much, much higher than
we were able to satisfy with our action.
 
Summary of our transnational campaign:
 
We will continue!
 
For more information, see:
https://www.bvdnet.de/datenschutz- geht-zur-schule/
 
For teachers who themselves deal with aspects of data protection in the classroom or
who want to prepare and follow up the units, since November 2018 the 3rd newly revised
revised edition of the teacher's manual "Privacy goes to school". the mate
Materials can be downloaded free of charge from www.bvdnet.de/datenschutz-geht-zur-schule-
getting charged.

- 3 -

 
 

Source photo:
published in the Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung on February 6, 2019, Photographer: Helmut
piper
 
 

If you have any questions, you can reach us on the telephone number 0711/615541-716.

 

 

Further information on data protection can be found on the Internet at

www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de or at www.datenschutz.de.

 

