

B2B emailing
+
-


Datum: 17.09.2020
Številka: 07126-1/2020/33

Kategorije: Neposredno trženje, nagradne igre
                        The Information Commissioner (Slovenian National Supervisory Body for Personal Data Protection; hereinafter: IC)) has received your inquiry concerning B2B emailing.The IC initially emphasises that it is only possible to provide specific answers to your questions in the course of an inspection procedure where all aspects of data processing and its compliance with the relevant GDPR provisions are assessed in the context of a specific use case. Hence, at this point, and in relation to your description of the planned data collection, it is only possible to provide general comments, as follows bellow.The IC would like to inform you that in our opinion the e-mail addresses of individual employees (for example - name.surname@company.com) undoubtedly still represent personal data. Namely, an e-mail address, from which the name, surname and employment data are evident, meet the condition that the individual becomes identified or at least identifiable. Namely, these personal data (usually) enable a fairly easy identification of an individual. This means that for the lawful processing of e-mail addresses of individual employees under Art. 6 of the GDPR, it will be necessary to have one of the legal bases.Special provisions on direct marketing via e-mail in the Republic of Slovenia are incorporated in Art. 158 of the Electronic Communications Act (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, no. 109/12, 110/13, 40/14, 54714, 81/15, 40/17) and Electronic Commerce Market Act (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, no. 96/09, 19/15). Implementation of the provisions of these two Acts is monitored by the Agency for Communication Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, and not by the IC.Therefore, we can only offer clarification regarding protection of personal data. In our opinion, a publicly disclosed e-mail address (or telephone number) of a person listed on the organization's website or other publicly available source (e-mail addresses that would be “guessed” as you state in your e-mail, do not meet the required criteria) may also be used to send commercial messages (direct marketing) if this is in accordance with the purpose of its publication. In such case, the direct marketing could be in line with Art 6(1)(f) of the GDPR - legitimate interests pursued by the controller. However, in that case interests and fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject (employee) must be taken into account, in light of their relationship to the controller. IC would like to emphasize that it must also be stated in each message intended for direct marketing that the individual (who received the message) has the option of "unsubscribing" from receiving the messages - the individual must be reminded of the right under Art. 21 of the GDPR.IC finally states that each individual controller is responsible for its actions and to ensure compliance with the provisions of the GDPR and other relevant data protection legislation when processing personal data.Kind regards,Matej Sironič,                                                  Personal Data Protection Advisor           Mojca PrelesnikInformation Commissioner of the Republic of Slovenia
