1/6

 Procedure No.: PS/00404/2019

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on June 6, 2019 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against GESTIÓN ABRIL DE PATRIMONIO, S.L. with NIF
B85336832 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The grounds on which the claim is based are public exposure, in the five
notice boards of the community of neighbors -one for each block of the group of
dwellings-, of an informative document that includes identification data (name,
surnames, block, floor and door) of several neighbors who oppose allowing the passage
for his home to carry out some works in the community.

In the letter they are required to give written permission within five days and
He threatens them with legal action if they object.

Likewise, they are required to pay an economic amount determined by the
extra cost caused by the delay in the execution of the works.

The complainant, who is one of those neighbors, considers that this measure was not necessary,
every time you have been notified by burofax from a law firm that
same content.

The claimant has been sued in court (ordinary procedure
***PROCEDURE.1 in the Court of First Instance no. ***COURT.1 of
Madrid)

Along with the claim, provide a photograph of the writing on the board, and a copy of the burofax
with the communication of the law firm.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the
documents provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, by virtue of the investigative powers
granted to the control authorities in article 57.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter LOPDGDD).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

The aim is to notify the respondent of this claim on July 19,
2019, requiring you to submit to this Agency, within a period of one month, information
on the response given to the claimant for the facts denounced, as well as the causes
that have motivated the incidence and the measures adopted for its correction of
in accordance with article 5.1 f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council of April 27, 2016 (RGPD).

The respondent answers the following:

“Such information has been published, because despite the fact that a previous attempt was made to
notification by burofax of the Board agreement to the four neighbors who opposed
allow entry into your home to carry out the agreed works, two of
the four neighbors refused the burofax, and another did not pick it up except for the
claimant, that he did receive it.

Having unsuccessfully tried to notify the domicile of those affected,
under the provisions of art. 9.1.h of the LPH, the communication was made through
edict within 3 calendar days on the community bulletin board.

Although they did not place any notice of communication addressed to the claimant, in the
remaining 3 edicts the data of the claimant were exposed, since in them
enumerated and identified the neighbors who were opposed to allowing entry into their
address for the execution of the works.

The publication of the data of the claimant, therefore, obeys assumption 9.1.h of the
LPH and art. 6.c of the RGPD, since the treatment is necessary for compliance
of a legal obligation applicable to the data controller (the works to be carried out
were notified by the Resolution of the Director of Emergencies and Civil Protection of the
Government area of Health, Safety and Emergencies of the Madrid City Council,
after, it is understood, the performance of an inspection)”

THIRD: On January 9, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, with
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter,
LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FOURTH: Having been notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, the respondent submitted a written
allegations on February 5, in which it proves the adoption of a series of measures
to ensure that future bulletin board postings are
comply with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation.

In this sense, the signed documents relating to the
confidentiality and security rules and procedures, as well as the report of
audit carried out by your lawyer that accredits the review and compliance with measures
security, aimed at ensuring the confidentiality and integrity of the information.

FIFTH: On February 26, the instructor of the procedure agreed to open
a period of evidence practice, taking into account the actions
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

preliminary investigations, E/07072/2019, as well as the documents provided by the
reclaimed.

SIXTH: On March 17, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that it be imposed on GESTIÓN ABRIL DE PATRIMONIO, S.L., with NIF
B85336832, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: the claim is based on public exposure, on five boards
of announcements of a community of neighbors where an informative writing is placed that
includes identification data (name, surnames, block, floor and door) of several
neighbors who oppose allowing the passage through their home to carry out some
works in the community.

SECOND: The respondent states that the facts are a consequence of the attempt
unsuccessful of the notification in the domicile of those affected, of the agreements of the
community of owners, deciding under the provisions of art. 9.1.h of the
LPH, make the communication by edict during a period of 3 calendar days in
the community bulletin board.

THIRD: The respondent has proceeded to incorporate in his professional activity of ca-
immediate nature the appropriate measures so that future publications on the board
ads comply with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulations.
cough.

Provides the documents signed by the staff of the entity denounced, related to
confidentiality and security rules and procedures, applicable to the
information accessed, as well as the audit report made by your
lawyer who accredits the review and compliance with security measures, tending
to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the information.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the

treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that “personal data will be:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for

those that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data that is
inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data; the
personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are processed
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice
of the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by the
this Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the data subject ("limitation
of the term of conservation»);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions

in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

It has been found that despite having correctly notified the
claimant for refusing to allow the passage through his home to carry out some
works in the community, your personal data (name, surnames,
block, floor and door) in the edicts addressed to the three remaining neighbors who had
refused or did not collect the notification, for this reason it is understood that the claimed party is
violating article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which governs the principles of integrity and
confidentiality of personal data, as well as the proactive responsibility of the
data controller to demonstrate compliance.

However, within the period given for it, it has been accredited by virtue of the
documents provided with their allegations to the initial agreement that the respondent has
adopted a series of appropriate measures to ensure that future publications
on the bulletin board comply with the provisions of the General Regulations of
Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

Providing the documents signed by the personnel of the denounced entity,
related to confidentiality and security rules and procedures, applicable to the
information accessed, as well as the audit report made by your
lawyer who accredits the review and compliance with security measures, tending
to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the information.

IV

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe the
three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

SAW

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

The art. 83.5 of the RGPD establishes that infractions that affect:

“a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22.”

7th

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its
section 2 d) establishes that each supervisory authority may “order the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations are
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period…”. The imposition of this
measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, as
provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

Therefore, as stated,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE a sanction of WARNING to MANAGEMENT APRIL OF
HERITAGE, S.L. with NIF B85336832, for a violation of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, of
in accordance with article 83.5 and 58.2.b) of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ABRIL DE ASSETS MANAGEMENT,
SL with NIF B85336832

THIRD: Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of 13/07, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction, in
within two months from the day following the notification of this act, as
the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm decision may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1/10.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

