Reference: ENF0987655 

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT 2000 (SECTION 52) 

ENFORCEMENT POWERS OF THE INFORMATION COMMISSIONER 

ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

 

DATED: 17 March 2023 

 

To:  London Borough of Lewisham 

 

Of:  Town Hall 

Catford 

London 

SE6 4RU 

 

     

 

 

 

1. The London Borough of Lewisham  (“the Council”) is a “public 

authority” listed in Schedule 1 and defined by section 3(1)(a)(i) of the 

Freedom of Information Act 2000 (“FOIA”). FOIA provides public 

access to information held by public authorities.  

 

2. The Information Commissioner (the “Commissioner”) hereby issues 

the Council with an Enforcement Notice (the “Notice”) under section 

52 FOIA. The Notice is in relation to the Council’s 

 

 

a.  Continuing non-compliance with section 1(1) FOIA; 

b.  Continuing breach of section 10(1) FOIA. 

3. This Notice explains the Commissioner’s decision to take enforcement 

action. The specific steps that the Council is required to take are set 

out in Annex 1. 

 

Legal Framework for this Notice 

 

4. A person requesting information from a public authority has a right, 

 

1 

Reference: ENF0987655 

subject to exemptions, to be informed by the public authority in writing 

whether it holds the information, and to have that communicated to 

him, if the public authority holds it. This is set out in section 1(1) 

FOIA– 

 

“(1) Any person making a request for information to a public 

authority is entitled – 

(a) 

to be informed in writing by the public authority whether it 

holds information of the description specified in the request, 

and 

(b) 

if that is the case, to have that information communicated to 

him.” 

 

5. Section 10(1) FOIA specifies that public authorities must respond to 

requests within 20 working days:  

 

 

“… a public authority must comply with section 1(1) promptly and in 

any event not later than the twentieth working day following 

receipt.” 

6. There is provision under FOIA for a public authority to claim a 

reasonable extension to this limit in certain circumstances but in all 

cases, the public authority must give the requestor a written response 

within the standard time limit for compliance. 

 

7. The Commissioner has various powers under FOIA. One of these is the 

issuing of an Enforcement Notice. Section 52(1) of FOIA states –  

 

 

“If the Commissioner is satisfied that a public authority has failed to 

comply with any of the requirements of Part I, the Commissioner 

may serve the authority with a notice (in this Act referred to as an 

“enforcement notice”) requiring the authority to take within such 

2 

Reference: ENF0987655 

time as may be specified in the notice, such steps as may be so 

specified for complying with those requirements.” 

 

Background  

 

8. The Commissioner decided to write to the Council regarding delays in 

responding to freedom of information (FOI) requests following a tweet 

mention by the Campaign for FOI. The tweet was in a relation to a blog 

published on 26 July 2022. The blog was on the FOI requests and 

Subject Access requests (SAR) statistics published by the Council on its 

website. Given the extent of the delays revealed in the published 

performance statistics, the Commissioner wrote to the Council on 5 

October 2022 regarding its obligations under the FOIA and the Data 

Protection Act 20181. The Council responded to this letter on 1 

November 2022, and provided a breakdown of its FOI and SAR 

performance data, including steps it was taking to address the 

Commissioner’s concerns. 

 

9. The FOI performance data provided by the Council revealed that; from 

April to September 2022, an average 73% of received requests were 

responded to within 20 working days. The total number of unanswered 

or overdue requests in the same period was revealed to be 100, with 

67 of these over 12 months old. 

 

10. The Commissioner wrote to the Council on 1 December 2022 and 

invited the Council to provide more details regarding the steps that it 

was taking to address the backlog of old requests, particularly those 

over 12 months old.  

 

11. The Council responded to this letter on 18 January 2022, and 

1 This Notice only addresses the Council’s performance under the FOIA. 

 

 

3 

Reference: ENF0987655 

explained that it had inadvertently provided inaccurate FOI 

performance data in its original response. The new FOI performance 

data provided by the Council covered the period April to December 

2022. The average percentage of received requests responded to 

within 20 working days remained at 73%. However, the total number 

of overdue requests was actually 338,  221 of which were over 12 

months old. The oldest unanswered request was submitted to the 

Council on 3 December 2020. The Council subsequently informed the 

Commissioner that a decision was taken to focus resources on 

prioritising new FOI and EIR requests, so that the number of overdue 

cases did not increase and add to the backlog. 

  

12. The Council acknowledged that more work needed to be done to 

address the backlog of FOI requests, and to improve the rate of 

responses within statutory timescales. It highlighted the following 

three areas as presenting the biggest challenge in responding to FOI 

requests: Housing, Adult Social Care, and Highways. It explained that 

a new management structure had been put in place since December 

2022 to address FOI and SAR performance. It had also agreed to 

recruit for an additional post to the FOI team. 

 

The Contravention and Reasons for this Notice 

 

13. FOIA requires a public authority to inform people whether it holds 

information they have requested and to communicate it to them within 

20 working days of receipt of their request. 

 

14. There is some evidence of improvement in the number of requests 

responded to by the Council within 20 working days. In October 2022, 

91% of requests were responded to within 20 working days, and this 

stood at 82% for both November and December 2022. This rate of 

response will need to be sustained and improved further. 

 

4 

Reference: ENF0987655 

 

15. The backlog of FOI requests and their age profile, are clearly a matter 

of considerable concern for the Commissioner, however. It is worth 

noting that the extent of the FOI backlog might not have come to light 

had the Commissioner not contacted the Council on 5 October 2022, 

and then requested further information on 1 December 2022. The 

Council could have proactively contacted the Commissioner to highlight 

the problems it was facing and what action it planned to take to 

address this, seeking advice from the Commissioner on whether this 

was sufficient.  

 

16. Instead the council has taken the decision to complete recent requests 

at the expense of tackling a backlog of older requests leaving those 

requestors without a response for significant periods. This is clearly 

unacceptable. Instead, a plan of action should have been put in place 

to address both the older and more recent requests, particularly in 

view of the nature of some of the older requests, which include 

requests to significant areas including Adult Social Care and housing. 

 

17. Taking into account the volume of unanswered FOI requests, their age 

profile, and the need to sustain and improve FOI response rates, the 

Commissioner considers it a proportionate regulatory step to issue an 

Enforcement Notice. This Notice requires the Council to comply with 

section 1(1) of FOIA in respect of each FOI request, where the 

response is outside of 20 working days at the date of this Notice, and 

where a permitted extension has not been applied. It is essential that 

the improvements that the Council has indicated it has seen in relation 

to incoming requests are also sustained. 

 

18. The Commissioner also considers it a proportionate regulatory step to 

require the Council to devise and publish an action plan, which 

formalises measures to mitigate delays in responding to the requests it 

 

5 

Reference: ENF0987655 

receives, in line with statutory requirements. This action plan should 

be supported by a ‘lessons learned’ exercise, which examines the root 

cause of delays in responding to FOI requests, with mitigations for any 

recurring problems addressed specifically in the plan. The 

Commissioner has produced a range of resources, including a template 

Action Plan, which should support the Council in complying with this 

step. 

 

Terms of this Notice 

 

19. The Commissioner therefore exercises his powers under section 52 of 

FOIA to serve an Enforcement Notice requiring the Council to take 

specified steps to comply with the requirements of Part 1 of FOIA. The 

specified steps are set out in Annex 1 of this Notice. 

 

20. The consequence of failing to comply with an Enforcement Notice is 

that the Commissioner may make written certification of this fact to 

the High Court pursuant to section 54 of FOIA. Upon consideration and 

inquiry by the High Court, the Council may be dealt with as if it had 

committed a contempt of court. 

 

Right of Appeal 

 

21. By virtue of section 57 of FOIA there is a right of appeal against this 

Notice to the First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights). If an appeal is 

brought against this Notice, it need not be complied with pending 

determination or withdrawal of that appeal. 

 

22. Information about the appeals process may be obtained from:  

 

 

 

 

6 

Reference: ENF0987655 

First-tier Tribunal (Information Rights) 

GRC & GRP Tribunals,  

PO Box 9300,  

LEICESTER,  

LE1 8DJ  

 

Tel: 0203 9368963 

Email: GRC@justice.gov.uk  

Website: www.justice.gov.uk/tribunals/general-regulatory-

chamber 

 

23. Any Notice of Appeal should be served on the Tribunal within 28 

(calendar) days of the date on which this Enforcement Notice is sent. 

 

 

 
Deborah Clark 
Manager – FOI 
Information Commissioner’s Office 
Wycliffe House 
Water Lane 
Wilmslow 
Cheshire 
SK9 5AF  
 

 

 

 

7 

Reference: ENF0987655 

Annex 1 

 

TERMS OF THE ENFORCEMENT NOTICE 

THIS NOTICE REQUIRES THE LONDON BOROUGH OF LEWISHAM 

TO TAKE THE FOLLOWING STEPS BY NO LATER THAN SIX MONTHS  

FROM THE DATE OF THIS NOTICE: 

 

(i) 

In respect of each information request where the response is  

outside of 20 working days as at the date of this notice, and  

where a permitted extension has not been applied, to comply  

with section 1(1)(a) of FOIA and, if information of the  

description specified in the request is held, either 

 

(ii) 

communicate it pursuant to section 1(1)(b) FOIA; or issue a  

valid refusal notice under section 17 FOIA, unless section  

17(6) FOIA applies. 

 

THIS NOTICE FURTHER REQUIRES THE LONDON BOROUGH OF 

LEWISHAM TO TAKE THE FOLLOWING STEP BY NO LATER THAN 35 

CALENDAR DAYS FROM THE DATE OF THIS NOTICE: 

  

 

 

 

 

(iii) 

Devise and publish an action plan formalising the measures it 

will take to ensure it complies with its legal duties under Part 

1 of FOIA to respond to information requests in a timely 

fashion, while also clearing its backlog of late requests as 

required by this notice. 

8 

