
16.6.2023.
As part of the ARC II project, the Agency, in cooperation with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the University of the North, held another consultation on the protection of personal data for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises entitled "5 years of GDPR application: problems, solutions, penalties and examples of good practices" at the University of the North in Varaždin.
"Investing in data protection is certainly not an expense, it will pay off for you. It is better to invest in information security than to pay fines," said director Zdravko Vukić. "It is high time that all managers/executors of processing understand that the deadline for adaptation has passed and that after five years from the start of full application of the General Regulation on Data Protection, lack of information and ignorance cannot be a justification and an excuse for violating the fundamental rights of Croatian citizens. Therefore, precisely by organizing such trainings, we help managers/executors of processing in solving all the doubts they face when harmonizing with the General Data Protection Regulation", said Vukić.
"Education is never enough, counseling is never enough. First of all, it is necessary to prevent, raise awareness, because the processing of data brings certain risks every day", emphasized the adviser to the President of HGK and vice-rector of the University of the North, associate professor, Ph.D.Sc. Petar Mišević also pointed out that investing in the protection of personal data should not be understood as a cost. "Investing in the protection of personal data is an investment that, especially for the private sector, but also for all other organizations, guarantees survival on the market in today's digital environment. Protecting information assets and protecting citizens' privacy is a big and responsible task for all of us," said Petar Mišević.
The participants of the consultation had the opportunity to familiarize themselves with examples of good practice in the field of personal data protection, to share with the Agency's experts the problems encountered in the application of the General Regulation on Data Protection, and with the support of experts to find solutions that will raise the level of compliance in their organizations to a higher level. In the same way, the Agency's officials talked about harmonizing business processes with the GDPR, that is, what organizations make the most mistakes in; technical and organizational measures for data protection; how to prepare for the supervisory and investigative activities of the Agency and about penalties for violators of the GDPR and the Act on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Otherwise, as part of its advisory role, the Agency continuously organizes various educational activities intended for all target groups, especially managers/executors of processing and data protection officers. However, the educational and monitoring activities carried out show that the level of compliance with the legislative framework for data protection in the Republic of Croatia is still not at a satisfactory level. Therefore, the Agency will continue with educational activities intended for all target groups, especially managers/executors of processing and data protection officers, and you can view the workshop schedule here.
















































































