Registration number: NAIH / 2020/974/4.

Subject: Ex officio decision
in an official data protection procedure
DECISION

The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (hereinafter: the Authority) dr.
Ákos Ányos Hadházy Member of Parliament ([…]; hereinafter referred to as the Data Controller)
It was done in connection with his collection of signatures for joining the prosecutor's office
to examine the lawfulness of data processing, data protection was initiated ex officio on 10 February 2020
take the following decisions in official proceedings:
1. Notes that the Data Controller, by “Join the European
To the prosecution! ” 19 July 2018 and 2019 in the context of the
May 30, collected without legal basis for contact purposes of the persons concerned personal
infringed Article 6 (1) and Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
paragraph.
2. Notes that the Data Controller, by failing to provide adequate information to
all relevant circumstances of the data processing, violated the general data protection
Article 5 (1) (a), Article 5 (2) and Article 13 of that Regulation.
3. Instructs the Data Controller to do so within 30 days of this decision becoming final
delete "Join the European Public Prosecutor's Office!" initiative
in this context, from 19 July 2018 to 30 May 2019
collected all personal data for that purpose.
4. The Authority shall notify the Data Controller
HUF 1,000,000, ie one million forints
data protection fine
obliges to pay.
The fine referred to in point 4 shall be imposed within a period of 30 days from the date on which this Decision becomes final a
Authority's centralized revenue collection special purpose forint settlement account (10032000-0104042500000000 Centralized collection account IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425 0000 0000)
must be paid for. When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2020/974. JUDGE. number should be referred to. If that
The data controller fails to comply with the obligation to pay the fine within the time limit
is obliged to pay. The amount of the late payment allowance is the statutory interest affected by the delay
equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the calendar half-year.
The fulfillment of the obligation provided for in point 3 shall be finalized by the Data Controller
in writing within 30 days of its entry into force, with supporting evidence
together - to the Authority.
Failure to pay the fine and the late payment allowance and the obligation under point 3 above shall not
the Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision.
No procedural costs were incurred in the proceedings.
There is no administrative remedy against this decision, but from the date of notification

within 30 days of the application to the Metropolitan Court in an administrative lawsuit
can be challenged. The application must be submitted to the Authority, electronically, which is the case
forward it to the court together with his documents. Indicate the request for a hearing in the application
must. For non-personal tax exemptions, judicial review
the fee for the proceedings is HUF 30,000, the lawsuit is subject to the right to record fees. Before the Metropolitan Court
legal representation is mandatory in these proceedings
The Authority shall issue this decision on the website of the Authority with the identification data of the Data Controller (name).
publish.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT
I. Facts
I.1. The Authority received a notification in which the petitioner provided the Data Controller with a European
Related to collecting signatures to enforce joining a prosecutor's office
objected to his data processing.
Following the notification, the Authority referred to Article 57 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation1,
and Act CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information.
NAIH / 2019/5062 pursuant to Section 38 (3) (a) of the Act (hereinafter: the Information Act).
initiated an investigation ex officio on the case number, during which the Data Controller collected signatures
examined its general data management practices in relation to
The Authority examined both the support for the initiative in the context of signature collection
for both communication and contact purposes. The Authority also examined the arches
the processing of personal data in connection with the online upload.
In order to clarify the facts, the Authority shall, on 3 July 2019, set a deadline of 15 days.
contacted the Data Controller. In the response letter of the Data Controller dated 17 July 2019 a
At the request of the Authority, it informed the Authority that in connection with the collection of signatures
it manages the full names, addresses and, optionally, e-mail addresses and telephone numbers of those concerned. On this
the consent of the data subjects was indicated by the Data Controller as the legal basis for personal data.
The data collection page of the sheet contained the following information: “Data Management
prospectus - I accept the prospectus with my signature ”, while the Privacy Statement on the back of the sheet
According to the text of the prospectus “The legal basis for data processing is to read this prospectus
express consent after that date. ".
According to the statement of the Data Controller, the data provided in the event that the data subject is provided
e-mail and / or telephone contact, with the consent of the data subject
If you have not provided any contact information, the information will be processed by
for 3 months after completion of collection (May 30, 2019).
The Data Controller shall provide the personal data provided by the data subjects to the European Public Prosecutor's Office
telephone and / or e-mail availability
intended to use the authorization for political contacts.
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the processing of personal data by natural persons
free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (hereinafter referred to as
Regulation or GDPR)
1

2

The data may be disclosed to the employees or to the natural and legal persons to whom it relates
Data controller for political communication or IT tasks in the form of a contract
trustee.
Storage of data in physical form (paper, handwriting) before deletion, 24-hour security service,
under the supervision of a fire alarm system and a camera system in a multiple enclosure.
After processing, the data was stored in a spreadsheet (.csv) format in Mailchimp
Sync.com backed up data and also in .csv format
website. Paper sheets shall be stored in a closed area under the supervision of a 24-hour security service, a fire alarm system and a camera system until they are destroyed.
According to the privacy statement of the signature collection form, “the data controller shall, no later than 31 May 2019,
handed over in this way to the personalities supported by the signatures on the signature collection forms
information to the notary public containing the names, addresses and signatures of the sponsors
attach the signature sheets in a closed manner to the text of the petition. " To the Authority's question
which personal data of the data subject is known to the notary during the authentication of the data,
and how the Data Controller ensures that the e-mail address and telephone number provided by the data subjects in the signature collection form do not become known to the notary, the Data Controller stated,
that notarization would have taken place when the 1 million signatures were reached. THE
authentication of contact information based on the information provided for the contact
during personal contact with proof of identity. To keep in touch
the data of those who did not give their consent were randomly checked. It didn't happen to a notary
therefore no data processing by a notary public took place.
To the Authority's question as to which personal data of the data subjects as "contact details"
collects and stores, and the question of why the range of data requested is necessary and how it responds
the principle of data protection, the Data Controller stated that the ‘Contact Data’ should be
stores the address, telephone number, e-mail address and full name of the data subject. The contact name and
the address is for the provision of personal, territorially relevant information, the e-mail address is
to deliver written documents and messages to the general public at the same time, a
telephone number for personal, urgent or imminent events,
and for citizens who do not have a computer. The Data Controller
according to the statement, they all meet the purpose of data management, communication, and
they help to meet the requirement of accuracy and up-to-dateness, as if one is data
If it turns out to be unreadable or incorrect, you can request another contact method
correction, or the ability to enter multiple types of contact information for custom modes
allow the controller to adapt to his preferences.
In its request, the Authority also requested information from the Data Controller on how
complies with the data security requirements of Article 32 of the GDPR
access database (s) and log access?
In its reply, the Data Controller informed the Authority that only the
having a data processing contract that uses it or is essential for its maintenance
experts and a small number of staff have access to it with multi-factor identification, so it is not currently available
log access. Personal data provided by data subjects through encrypted channels, a
are protected by the SSL web protocol for secure data transfer to the Data Controller and
forwarded to the Data Controller's newsletter or cloud service provider. Special security
programs are used and regular security checks are performed. In addition, the
The data controller states that it uses a trusted server provider where outbound
connections are logged to track any intrusions. The most fresh
technologies are used and regular backups are performed. in Hungary
only with a secure and adequate level of data protection and certification mechanism
3

GDPR compliant services in the United States (US: EU-US Privacy
Shield, Canada). The use of data overwriting and backup peripherals is severely restricted, as such
protects your data with encryption. Data and media no longer needed by 2 witnesses
destroyed under supervision.
The
Data controller
statement
according to
the
filled out
signature collector
arches
Legal basis for the management of the email address or telephone number that must be provided when uploading to https://europaiugyeszsegert.hu/feltoltes/ - in the data management information
consent of the data subject. The purpose of data management is to maintain contact,
including the clarification and correction of data resulting from erroneous or illegible uploads
requests. This data is processed by the Data Controller until the withdrawal of the data subject's consent.
The Data Controller also stated that the duration of data processing in the data management information
Part 2 has been clarified: for the sake of clarity, all of the Internet data management
according to the content of the text, which contains a link to the prospectus
Insert a check box in the data management information by selecting the check box a
consent to the processing of the data provided until the withdrawal of consent.
These fields have previously pointed to this prospectus and did so until consent was withdrawn
allow for data processing, but have been renamed for more accurate and clear information,
which was not immediately followed by the wording in the data management information.
According to the Data Controller, the data collection will take place from 19 July 2018 and from pre-registration to 2019.
lasted until May 30, after which the registration and upload interfaces were closed.
I.2. In the course of the investigation, the Authority found that the data subjects had access to data processing
its consent lacks the most important conceptual elements - that is, the will of the data subject
voluntary, specific and well - informed and clear statement - which
is necessary for the legal basis of the data processing indicated by the Data Controller, ie
consent must be valid. In view of this, the Authority has established that the Data Controller
handles the data collected from data subjects in connection with the collection of signatures without a valid legal basis
all personal data, the processing thus infringes Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Article. Because these data fall into and are special categories of personal data
the controller may, inter alia, have the right to deal with it if it is concerned
express consent, the processing infringes Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
paragraph. The Data Controller also infringed Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation
by failing to provide data subjects with information on all aspects of data processing
material circumstance.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 56 (1) and (2), the Authority in its letter dated 11 October 2019 a
and warned the Data Controller to warn of the legal consequences
immediately delete the "Join the European Public Prosecutor's Office!"
called
from 19 July 2018 to 30 May 2019 in the context of this initiative
collected all personal data and, upon receipt, upon receipt of the request
to the Authority within 30 days of
In a letter received by the Data Protection Authority on 19 November 2019, the Data Controller informed the Authority of the
on the measures taken following a request for the annulment of the
the information contained therein, outside the scope of the contact details, upon receipt of the request
have been deleted prior to 31 August 2019 in accordance with the prior information provided to those concerned; data stored in the Mailchimp mailing system 2019.
were deleted on 14 November and the account used by the Data Controller was also terminated;
and the data stored on the sync.com cloud storage was deleted on or after November 14, 2019
4

The account used by the data manager has also been terminated.
He also informed the Authority that the contact details affected by the request were external
on a medium in .csv format - they are still available to them, as in its view
the Authority's request in these respects is unfounded and disputes the Authority's claim that
that the consent does not meet the definition in Article 4 (1) of the GDPR
certain conceptual elements.
Subsequently, in its letter of 18 December 2019, the Authority provided further reasons for the
and reiterated its call on the Data Controller to delete the ‘Join the European
To the prosecution! ” in the context of the initiative
collected all personal data for that purpose.
In view of the fact that the request for redress within the prescribed period,
despite repeated requests - did not take place, the Authority closed the investigation and Infotv. Section 58 (1)
and § 58 (2) a) on 10 February 2020 by the data protection authority
initiated proceedings.
I.3. In the context of the data protection authority procedure, the Authority will clarify the facts
contacted the Data Controller.
The Data Controller asked the Authority who had access to the online interface
to fill in the signature collection form, he suggested that anyone could upload the signature collection
volt. Those who actually did so supported the Privacy Campaign, in that
participated as a volunteer / activist.
Distinguish between volunteers / activists and those who only support the initiative
It is based on the fact that the signatory supporting the initiative is any person who signs it
supported the initiative, while volunteers / activists are those who
actively participated in the campaign (for example, by downloading, printing,
by collecting signatures and submitting them or uploading them online).
Someone could also become a volunteer / activist by uploading sheets to the site, thus supporting the
signature collection.
Volunteering is, in the opinion of the Data Controller, for the submissions made during the investigation procedure, and
with regard to alternative ways of delivering the sheets (personal delivery, postage) in this
In this case, too, it cannot be questioned. Online uploading was just a convenience option, not that
the only way to go.
In support of his earlier claim that “by the Authority in uploading the sheets online
in connection with the processing of personal data which must be provided for contact purposes
objections are raised only in relation to the data of the volunteers responsible for the signature collection sheets,
that is, not at all with regard to the contact details provided by the signatories ”
The Data Controller submitted that the Authority had previously objected to the voluntary nature of the
natural persons uploading online forms have also subscribed to the newsletter during the upload, and
there was no way to ignore this during upload. The Data Controller stated that all
in his reply he calls the persons filling in the sheets a volunteer / activist. On the uploaded sheets
with regard to the personal data of the data subjects, this argument would not be
since the signatories were not present at the time of the upload, so in connection with it
they must not be affected by the characteristics of the contribution obtained. Volunteers / activists and signatories
- the people who signed the initiative in support of the initiative,
and at the same time they collected signatures and uploaded sheets - and they could be people who
5

or they only supported the initiative with their signatures, or they only collected and arched
uploaded. However, the issue of volunteering has so far been about filling in the sheets
related to the processing of data on volunteers / activists.
II. Applicable legal provisions
On the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
the General Data Protection Regulation applies to personal data in part or
fully automated processing of personal data and the processing of personal data
which are part of a registration system
which are intended to be part of a registration system. The general
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2), the
The General Data Protection Regulation shall apply with the additions indicated therein.
Pursuant to Article 2 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Regulation does not apply
processing of personal data if it:
(a) carried out in the course of activities outside the scope of Union law;
(b) by Member States in the activities covered by Chapter 2 of Title V of the TEU
performed;
(c) by natural persons exclusively in the course of their personal or domestic activities;
(d) the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offenses by the competent authorities
carried out for the purpose of conducting criminal proceedings or enforcing criminal sanctions, including:
protection against and prevention of threats to public security.
According to Article 4 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, “personal data: the identified or
any information relating to an identifiable natural person ("data subject"); identifiable by a
a natural person who, directly or indirectly, in particular by an identifier, e.g.
name, number, location data, online identifier or physical, physiological,
genetic, intellectual, economic, cultural or social identity
identifiable by that factor. "
According to point 2 of the same article, “data processing: on personal data or data files
any operation or set of operations carried out in an automated or non-automated manner,
thus collecting, recording, organizing, segmenting, storing, transforming or altering, querying,
available for inspection, use, communication, transmission or other means
harmonization or interconnection, restriction, deletion or destruction. "
According to Article 4 (7) of the General Data Protection Regulation, “controller” means the natural person
or a legal person, public authority, agency or any other body that is personal
determine the purposes and means of data processing, either individually or in association with others; if that
the purposes and means of the processing are determined by Union or Member State law, the controller or
specific aspects of the designation of the controller are also governed by Union or Member State law
may determine. "
According to Article 4 (11) of the General Data Protection Regulation, "consent of the data subject" means the data subject
voluntary, specific and well-informed and unambiguous declaration of will,
by which the statement concerned or the act of confirmation is unequivocally expressed,
to give his or her consent to the processing of personal data concerning him or her.
According to Article 5 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data:
6

(a) be processed lawfully and fairly and in a manner which is transparent to the data subject
("legality, fairness and transparency");
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not processed
in a way incompatible with those objectives; not in accordance with Article 89 (1)
considered incompatible with the original purpose for the purpose of archiving in the public interest, scientific
and further processing for historical research or statistical purposes (‘for purposes
constraint ”);
(c) be appropriate and relevant to the purposes for which the data are processed; and
they should be limited to what is necessary ("data saving");
(d) be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; all reasonable measures must be taken
in order to ensure that personal data are inaccurate for the purposes of data processing
deleted or corrected immediately ("accuracy");
(e) stored in a form which permits identification of data subjects for personal purposes only
allows the time necessary to achieve the purposes of data processing; personal information than this
longer storage can only take place if personal data
for archiving in the public interest in accordance with Article 89 (1)
and will be carried out for historical research or statistical purposes, those covered by this Regulation
appropriate technical and organizational arrangements to protect their rights and freedoms
subject to the implementation of measures ("limited storage");
(f) be handled in such a way that appropriate technical or organizational measures are taken
ensure the adequate security of personal data
unauthorized or unlawful handling, accidental loss, destruction or
including protection against damage ("integrity and confidentiality").
Subject to paragraph 2, the controller shall be responsible for complying with paragraph 1, and
must be able to demonstrate this compliance (‘accountability’).
Pursuant to Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the processing of personal data is limited to
is lawful if and to the extent that at least one of the following is met:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes
treatment;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which one of the parties is a party;
or to take action at the request of the data subject prior to the conclusion of the contract
required;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject;
(d) processing is in the vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person
necessary for its protection;
(e) the exercise of a public interest or the exercise of official authority vested in the controller
necessary for the performance of its task;
(f) processing for the legitimate interests of the controller or of a third party
necessary, unless the interests of the data subject take precedence over those interests
or fundamental rights and freedoms which call for the protection of personal data,
especially if the child concerned.
Point (f) of the first subparagraph shall not apply to the performance of their duties by public authorities
data management.
According to Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, “racial or ethnic origin,
political opinion, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership
personal data and genetic and biological data for the unique identification of natural persons
biometric data, health data and the sexual life of natural persons or
the processing of personal data concerning his or her sexual orientation is prohibited. "
According to paragraph (2) (a) of the same section, paragraph (1) does not apply to
where the data subject has given his or her express consent to one or more of the said personal data
7

for a specific purpose, unless Union or Member State law provides that
the prohibition referred to in paragraph 1 may not be lifted with the consent of the data subject.
Article 13 (1) and (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation sets out the
information which the data subject has obtained at the time the personal data are obtained
should be made available to them if personal data are collected from the data subject. In accordance with paragraph 1
the controller shall provide the data subject with all of the following information:
(a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, if any, of the controller 's representative;
(b) the contact details of the Data Protection Officer, if any;
(c) the purpose of the intended processing of the personal data and the legal basis for the processing;
(d) in the case of processing based on Article 6 (1) (f), the controller or a third party
legitimate interests of a party;
(e) where applicable, the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
(f) where applicable, the fact that the controller is a third country or international organization
personal data and the Commission’s Compliance Office
the existence or absence of a decision in accordance with Article 46, Article 47 or Article 49 (1)
in the case of the transmission referred to in the second subparagraph of
the means of obtaining the guarantees and the means of obtaining a copy thereof, or
reference to their availability.
Pursuant to paragraph 2, the controller shall provide the following additional information to the
data subject at the time of obtaining the personal data:
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored or, if that is not possible, that period
aspects of its definition;
(b) the data subject's right to request from the controller the personal data concerning him or her
access to, rectification, erasure or restriction of the processing of data, and
may object to the processing of such personal data and to the portability of the data concerned
the right to
(c) information based on Article 6 (1) (a) or Article 9 (2) (a);
in the case of data processing, the right to withdraw the consent at any time, which
does not affect the lawfulness of the processing carried out on the basis of the consent prior to the withdrawal;
(d) the right to lodge a complaint with the supervisory authority;
(e) that the provision of personal data is required by law or by a contractual obligation
based on or a precondition for concluding a contract and whether the person concerned is obliged to be personal
data and the possible consequences of providing the data
failure;
(f) the fact of automated decision-making referred to in Article 22 (1) and (4), including:
profiling and, at least in these cases, the logic used
understandable information on the significance of such processing and on the data subject
its expected consequences.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), the enforcement of the right to the protection of personal data
In order to do so, the Authority may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), it was taken in a data protection official proceeding
In its decision, the Authority Data management specified in Section 2 (2)
defined in the General Data Protection Regulation in the context of
may apply legal consequences.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (2), the Authority may order its decision - the data controller or
disclosure of the identity of the processor, if the
8

This Decision affects a wide range of persons through the activities of a body performing public tasks
or the gravity of the infringement justifies disclosure.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory authority
condemn the data controller or the data processor if its data processing activities have violated this
provisions of this Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority shall apply Article 83
impose an administrative fine accordingly, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of the measures referred to in
Pursuant to Article 83 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority shall ensure that a
imposed pursuant to this Article for infringements of this Regulation referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6
administrative fines shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive in each case
be.
Infotv. 75 / A. Pursuant to Article 83 (2) to (6) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Authority
exercise the powers set out in paragraph 1 in accordance with the principle of proportionality,
in particular by providing for the law or regulation on the processing of personal data
Requirements laid down in a binding act of the European Union
Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in particular by alerting the controller or processor.
Pursuant to Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, administrative fines are imposed by
referred to in Article 58 (2) (a) to (h) and (j), as the case may be
should be imposed in addition to or instead of measures. When deciding if it is necessary
to impose an administrative fine or to determine the amount of the administrative fine
in each case due account shall be taken of the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the breach, taking into account the processing in question
the nature, scope or purpose of the infringement and the number of persons affected by the infringement; and
the extent of the damage they have suffered;
(b) the intentional or negligent nature of the infringement;
(c) the mitigation of damage caused to the data subject by the controller or the processor
any measures taken to
(d) the extent of the responsibility of the controller or processor, taking into account the
Technical and organizational measures taken pursuant to Articles 25 and 32;
(e) relevant infringements previously committed by the controller or processor;
(f) with the supervisory authority, remedy the breach and the breach may be negative
the degree of cooperation to mitigate its effects;
(g) the categories of personal data concerned by the breach;
(h) the manner in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular
whether the controller or processor has reported the breach and, if so, what
in detail;
(i) if previously against the controller or processor concerned, in the same
have ordered one of the measures referred to in Article 58 (2),
compliance with the measures in question;
(j) whether the controller or processor has complied with Article 40
approved codes of conduct or an approved certification in accordance with Article 42
mechanisms; and

9

(k) other aggravating or mitigating factors relevant to the circumstances of the case,
for example, the financial gain obtained as a direct or indirect consequence of the infringement
or avoided loss.
III. Decision
III.1. Validity of the legal basis for the collection of data in the signature collection form
(a) Lack of express consent
The Data Controller is entitled "Join the European Public Prosecutor's Office!" initiative called
the name and address (postcode, city, address) and e-mail of the stakeholders
contact information, phone number and signature, which is the data of general privacy
personal data in accordance with the definitions in this Regulation
an operation such as collecting, recording and storing data is considered data management.
Under the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, there are a number of reasons for the lawfulness of data processing
requirement must be met. Of these, the General Data Protection Regulation 5 has a key role to play.
Legality, due process and transparency referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b)
and the principle of purpose. In addition, the data controller is subject to general data protection
shall have a legal basis in accordance with Article 6 (1) of
for data management.
In addition to facilitating the connection to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, the Data Controller shall provide all personal data provided by the data subject by telephone and / or e-mail.
also for the purpose of political contact, according to the Privacy Statement of the sheet, in order to
The data controller shall provide information in connection with the activities of members of parliament.
Therefore, if the parties concerned have also provided their contact details by telephone and / or e-mail,
The data controller wanted to handle it for political communication. As a result, it is political
personal data processed for the purpose of communication, as well as the political views of the data subjects
and, as such, Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
also constitute a special category of personal data within the meaning of So one in itself
Name and contact details collected from stakeholders to support the initiative
may be considered as special personal data, however, if they are also collected by the controller for the purpose of
that, in addition to the original purpose of the initiative, the data provided by those concerned
to liaise with a political organization, in this case
to provide information at a later stage in connection with the activities of members of parliament
Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
shall be deemed to be special personal data referring to a political opinion in accordance with paragraph 1.
The processing of special categories of personal data is generally prohibited or strictly regulated by the Regulation
subject to conditions. This special category of personal information includes general information
in accordance with Article 9 (2) of the Data Protection Regulation if
the data subject has given his or her express consent to their processing for one or more specific purposes.
The Data Controller has indicated the consent of the data subjects as the legal basis for the data processing, as well as the sheet
He also referred to the consent of the parties concerned in the Privacy Notice on the back of
The data collection page of the sheet contained the following information: “Data Management
prospectus - I accept the prospectus with my signature ”, while the Privacy Statement on the back of the sheet
10

According to the text of the prospectus “The legal basis for data processing is to read this prospectus
express consent after that date. ".
In order for the controller to be able to legitimately invoke the legal basis of the consent, the consent
all its conceptual elements must meet the requirements that apply to it.
5/2020 on the consent of the European Data Protection Board and
the Data Protection Directive issued pursuant to Article 29 of the Data Protection Directive
The Working Party’s Guideline WP259 on Consent also confirms that
that the statement or act expressing the confirmation unequivocally is lawful
precondition for consent. The guidelines state that explicit consent is required
in certain situations where there is a serious data protection risk. The general
According to the Data Protection Regulation, explicit consent plays an important role in personal
Article 9 on the handling of special categories of data, including political
also in the case of the processing of personal data referring to an opinion. The express term implies that
how the data subject expresses his or her consent. That means the person concerned
must make a statement of express consent. It is about the express nature of the consent
the obvious way of convincing is to express consent in a written statement
would be a confirmation. In order for the data subject to be able to express his or her will in concrete terms, it is necessary
therefore, that the controller is a consent to the data processing activities
clearly separate information related to the acquisition of
information.
Recital 42 of the General Data Protection Regulation also states that the controller
you must provide a pre-arranged statement of consent that is clear and easy to use
it must be made available in an accessible form and its language must be clear and
it must be clear and not contain unfair terms.
In the Authority's view, it is only that the data subject provides the requested form on the signature collection form
data cannot be considered to be specific, unambiguous
nor the “acceptance” of the Privacy Notice by signing
considered as a consent to the use of personal data
an unequivocally expressive act. For the data subject - data management based on consent
not to “accept” the prospectus, but to process the data on the basis of the information
consent to the processing. THE
the information is therefore closely linked to the consent, as the data subject is appropriate
in possession of the information, be able to make a decision as to whether or not to give his or her consent
processing of personal data. In connection with the provision of information, the data subject may
the statement is expected to have read its contents, it has taken note of its contents,
its role is therefore to prove that the contribution is well-informed.
Consent by giving it as explained above is not concerned
clear and specific expression of his will, the data processing is not considered valid
the Data Controller handles the personal data of the data subjects without a valid legal basis,
thereby infringing Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation. Since these data a
belong to special categories of personal data and deal with them, inter alia
the controller has the possibility, if the data subject has given his or her explicit consent,
the processing also infringes Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.

11

b) Lack of adequate information on the purpose of data processing
According to Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data
be processed lawfully and fairly and in a way that is transparent to those concerned
(b) of the same paragraph also provides for the principle of purposeful data processing,
that the collection of personal data is for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes only
and may not be treated in a way incompatible with those purposes.
According to the Privacy Policy of the sheet, the purpose of data processing is the name, address and signature
the collection of supporting signatures and their joint voters
submission to the notary. Provided contact information
(telephone number, e-mail address) has also been provided, all data according to the Privacy Policy
- in addition to the telephone number and / or e-mail address, the purpose of managing the name, address and signature is to
Data controller in connection with the activities of members of parliament for the data subject a
provide information at the contact details provided.
In its reply to the Authority, the Data Controller stated in this regard that
collected data from stakeholders to facilitate their accession to the European Public Prosecutor 's Office, and
notarization would have taken place when the 1 million signatures were reached.
Regarding the purpose of the data processing, he also stated that the data of the data subjects,
if authorized by providing telephone and / or e-mail contact details,
used for political communication.
In the course of the procedure, the Authority found that the data collection side of the sheet was for each
there was no specific indication or call for data to be collected
the provision of personal data is mandatory for the support of the initiative to be valid, or
providing data is optional and is different from collecting support for the initiative
for data processing purposes, in this case for political contacts, which is carried out by the Authority
is misleading to supporters of the initiative. That is data management
it appears to be legitimate, but the sign is misleading to the data collectors
The Data Controller informs only about the primary purpose of data management, while in addition
there is no call to provide e-mail and / or telephone contact
provided by the signatory, - which information is provided for the validity of the support for the initiative
not even necessary - it will handle all your personal data for contact purposes
Data controller and only provides information on this in the Privacy Notice on the back of the sheet.
Provide telephone and / or e-mail contact details on the signature collection form, taking into account that
There is no specific notice in the sheet that this information is optional - no
considered as consent to the use of personal data
on the other hand, it is not the original
for the processing of personal data for contact purposes in addition to the purpose of data processing
contribution. If the controller consents to the same consent as the legal basis
invokes another data processing purpose, the requirement of explicit consent is violated,
because the data subject's consent cannot be extended for further new data processing purposes.
Recital 32 of the General Data Protection Regulation states that if the data processing
serves more than one purpose at a time, the consent for all data processing purposes
to be provided separately. If the data controller does not attempt to do so for each purpose
ask for consent separately, there is a lack of freedom of decision.
12

In the Authority's view, the lawfulness of the processing of the personal data of the data subjects at that time
can be established if the data subject is used for all data processing purposes
the processing of personal data in that case
considered fair if the controller has a separate signature on the signature collection form
draws the attention of stakeholders to which, depending on the support for each data management purpose
personal information is required and optional.
The Data Controller, in his information on the action taken following the request,
takes the view, however, that the information indicating the legal basis should be accepted and
knowing the data in the form by hand, and finally placing the signature is just as
an act that clearly expresses the will required by the General Data Protection Regulation
requires.
They were able to enter the following data in a table on the main page of the signature collection sheet
for stakeholders: name, address (postcode, city, address), e-mail, telephone and signature. The data
underlined in bold under the table for the provision of
I support Hungary's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. " Also this
the following text was read below:
“You can return this completed form by post to 135 Széchenyi rakpart, 1358 Budapest.
Office of the National Assembly, dr. Ákos Hadházy, you can hand it in at a collection point or upload it to
https://europaiugyeszseget.hu/feltoltes site
Privacy Notice - I accept the prospectus with my signature
Data management information for dr. Personal handled by Ákos Hadházy's staff and staff
data. CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE
However, the collection of signatures was not for the sole purpose of collecting supporting signatures, such as
as stated in the sheet “With my signature I support the accession of Hungary
to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. " sentence for the first time, for that purpose
for only the personal data of the name, address and signature were collected. The sheet “Privacy
provided that the data subject has also provided his or her e-mail address and telephone number
the data controller also handles all data for communication purposes.
Article 4 (11) of the General Data Protection Regulation defines the "consent of the data subject"
as a legitimate basis for the processing of personal data. In this regard, the
Recital 32 of the General Data Protection Regulation provides further guidance that the
data processing can only take place if the data subject has a clear affirmative action, e.g.
written, including electronically, or orally, voluntary, specific,
informed and unambiguous consent of the natural person
processing of personal data. The consent is for the same purpose or purposes
covers all data management activities. If the data processing serves several purposes at the same time,
then consent must be given for all purposes of data processing.
Data management is also not sufficiently transparent, clear and unambiguous
one of the purposes of data management (“I, my signature, support Hungary
to the European Public Prosecutor's Office. ") on the main page of the signature collection sheet
will be provided while the information is provided - if the data subject provides his / her email address
and / or telephone number - for data management purposes other than the original purpose (for contact purposes)
is handled by the Privacy Policy on the page other than the signature collection page of the Data Controller
in the prospectus.

13

The above is confirmed by Decree 5/2020 on the contribution under Regulation (EU) 2016/679. number
and Guideline WP259 issued as a precedent
that the controller requesting consent for various different purposes
should provide a separate contribution option for each purpose in order to
stakeholders to make specific contributions for specific purposes.
Fairness of the processing of data subjects' personal data for contact purposes and
its lawfulness can therefore be established if the data subject has been duly informed
that the collection of personal data is for two different purposes
(supporting the initiative and further political contacts) and depending on each objective
the scope of the mandatory and optional personal data is different, as well as if the data subject is concerned
has given its separate, clear and specific consent to the Data Controller’s
information in connection with the activities of members of parliament
provide at the contact details provided. It is not possible to dispute the choice of those concerned
to support the purpose of collecting signatures with their signatures, but are also free to decide whether to
whether they wish to receive political items from the Data Controller, the collection of signatures
separately.
Data management by the Data Controller failing to provide adequate information to data subjects
for the purpose of the processing, in breach of Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
principle of fair data management.
Furthermore, consent by providing it as explained above is not
clear and concrete expression of the will of the data subjects, data processing is not considered
without a valid legal basis, the Data Controller shall handle the personal data of the data subjects
in breach of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation. Because of this
data fall into special categories of personal data and are handled by others
between, if the data subject has expressly requested to do so
data processing infringes Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
is.
c) Lack of informed consent
An important conceptual element of a valid consent is that the request for consent is appropriate
information precede. Adequate prior information is required in order to:
stakeholders should be aware of what they specifically agree to in order to be aware of it
details of the processing and exercise their right to withdraw their consent. Of this
in the absence of such consent, the legal basis for the processing will be invalid.
Article 5 (1) (a) and (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation and thus
In this context, recital 39 states that the processing of personal data
be carried out lawfully and fairly and in a manner which is transparent to the data subject
("Legality, due process and transparency"). For natural persons
it must be transparent how their personal data about them is collected and used
whether they are viewed or otherwise treated and with it
the extent to which personal data are and will be processed. THE
the natural person about the risks and rules related to the processing of personal data,
guarantees and rights. The principle of transparency applies to stakeholders
for the purposes of data processing. The specific purposes of personal data processing are explicit
and lawful, as well as the collection of personal data
must be specified at the time of
14

In the course of the procedure, the Authority found that the data processing of the signature collection form
In the prospectus, the Data Controller did not properly inform the data subjects about the data management
its legal basis and purpose.
As regards the identification of the recipients of personal data, the Authority has established that
In the data management prospectus, the data subjects were informed that the Data Controller is the signature collector
submit the application forms to a notary public by 31 May 2019 at the latest, so that the
regardless of the number of signatures. At the request of the Authority, the Data Controller shall, on the other hand, consider
stated that notarization would have taken place when the 1 million signatures were reached
and given that a sufficient number of supporting signatures could not be collected, so
there was no contract with a notary, so there was no data processing by a notary. THE
The Authority therefore considered that the information on the addressees would have been provided in that case
complete if the data subject had been informed that the archives and the person on it
the transfer of personal data to a notary shall take place only if the
a sufficient number of signatures have been collected and they have been informed that
after filing with a notary, what would have happened to the arches and thus to the person on it
with personal information. Therefore, the prospectus did not contain any information that
if a sufficient number of signatures are collected, what will happen to the sheets and the ones on it
with all personal information. However, this information may have had an impact
the data subject to decide whether or not to support the initiative
in the knowledge of the person concerned, it could have considered whether or not it was worth exercising that right.
In its reply to the Authority, the Data Controller provided information on the data used
data processors, however, in the Data Protection Bulletin attached to the sheet, the data processors
those concerned were not informed of its use. Furthermore, stakeholders were not informed
whether the activists commissioned by the Data Controller qualify as data processors or not.
Furthermore, it is not clear who is to be understood as the employees of the Data Controller or the “staff”
to know the legal relationship of the Data Controller with these persons, who performs what tasks
during data management.
Regarding the duration of storage of personal data collected in support of the initiative
the Privacy Notice contained only the information that the signature sheets were
After submitting the data to the notary, the notary will file the petition
shall be deleted after consideration of the initiative. However, it was not
information that if the sheets are not submitted to the notary when
they will be deleted.
The Authority has established that, on the basis of the above, the Data Controller -
in the Data Management Information Sheet of the Signature Collection Form - did not provide information to the data subject
all relevant circumstances of the data processing, thereby violating the general data protection
Article 5 (1) (a) and Article 13 of that Regulation.
The Authority shall inform the Authority of the action taken by the Data Controller following the request
in relation to the finding that “an important conceptual element of a valid consent is that a
the request for consent shall be preceded by appropriate information. Appropriate prior information
it is necessary for those concerned to be aware of what is being done
agree to know the details of the data processing and to exercise their consent
their right to withdraw. In the absence of this, consent is the legal basis for data processing
will be invalid ’, explained in recital 42 of the General Data Protection Regulation
the legislator provides guidance on in which cases the consent is valid. The text
According to him, “in order for consent to be considered as informed, the data subject must at least
be aware of the identity of the controller and the purpose of the processing of personal data. " The
15

According to the Data Controller, the above finding of the Authority is therefore general in itself
contradicts the preamble to the Data Protection Regulation, so it is clearly arbitrary.
In the opinion of the Data Controller, the Authority 's finding that a
Infringement of the obligation to provide information can only be established on the ground that it does not concern the
the quality of the data processing of the activists. On this
the circumstances are known to those concerned, so that appropriate prior information
with regard to Article 13 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation. Because it is
the data subject was informed about the identity of the data controller and the purpose of the data processing, thus the legal basis
(valid consent) is unquestionable.
The Authority considers that appropriate information is provided when applying the consent legal basis
a conceptual element that plays a central role in the development of all conceptual elements of the contribution (e.g.
as voluntary, specificity, clarity). This
necessary to ensure that those concerned have adequate information that:
exactly what they agree to, know the details of data management and be able to practice a
their right to withdraw their consent.
Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation defines exhaustively what they are
information to be communicated to data subjects at the time the data are obtained,
regardless of the legal basis for the processing. In connection with the appropriate information, the general
However, recital 42 of the Data Protection Regulation states that consent
acceptable even if the data subject is at least aware of the controller
the purpose of the processing of personal data, but this may not exceptionally be the case
in the case of paper-based signatures, in particular the expression of opinions and the processing of data of a political nature
in case of. This recital does not in any way override general data protection
information obligation under Article 13 of the Regulation and in recital 42
cannot be interpreted as meaning that the consent of the stakeholders is only these two content elements
This would reduce the transparency of the Regulation
requirement.
III.2. Validity of the legal basis for data processing when uploading forms online
(a) Lack of voluntary consent
During the period of signature collection, it was possible to complete the completed signature collection forms a
Also for uploading via https://europaiugyeszseget.hu/feltoltes/. During upload,
or the following personal data was required for its successful completion:
name (surname and first name), e-mail address, county, town, telephone, and were required
Adoption of data management information. As stated in the Privacy Policy, the
the purpose of data management is to contact and liaise with supporters of the European Public Prosecutor's Office,
as well as activities and events in support of the European Public Prosecutor's Office,
notifications of movements and signatures.
In the response of the Data Controller to the Authority, the data subjects are the legal basis for the data processing
and the purpose of the data processing is to keep in touch and to ensure that the
You can also use the contact information provided to indicate that you are incorrect or
request clarification and correction of data resulting from unreadable uploads.

16

It can therefore be concluded that in order to handle the personal data provided when uploading the forms online, the
their consent has been given by those concerned as indicated above, subject to mandatory completion
fields, enter your personal information and the checkbox next to the Privacy Notice
marked. It was therefore not possible to fill in the sheet as long as the requested personal data were available
the uploader did not specify or select the check box.
The consent is valid in accordance with Article 4 (11) of the General Data Protection Regulation
one of the most important elements is volunteering.
In this respect, recital 42 of the General Data Protection Regulation states that
consent is not considered voluntary if the data subject does not have a real or
with a free choice and is not in a position to refuse consent without
withdrawal to the detriment of it. In addition, as set out in recital (43), a
consent shall not be considered voluntary if it does not allow for individual contributions a
for various data management operations, although appropriate where appropriate.
5/2020 on the contribution under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Guideline
in its previous guideline WP259, the European Data Protection Supervisor
in relation to the voluntary contribution, it found that the “free” element did
presupposes that those concerned have a real choice and right of disposal.
As a general rule, the General Data Protection Regulation stipulates that if the data subject does not have
you have a real choice, you feel compelled to contribute, or you feel negative
there will be consequences if you do not give your consent, your consent will not be valid.
The lawfulness of data processing requires a separate, valid legal basis for all independent purposes
therefore both to support the initiative and to
for data management for communication purposes. Stakeholders for all data management purposes
as explained above
the most important conceptual elements that are necessary for consent to be present, that is
the legal basis for data processing is valid. There is a lack of voluntary, concrete,
informed and unambiguous statement giving its consent
to manage your personal data.
In the opinion of the Authority, the Data Controller handles the personal data of the data subjects without a valid legal basis
- both during the data collection in the signature collection form and for communication purposes
in breach of Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
paragraph. Because these data fall into and are special categories of personal data
the controller may, inter alia, have the right to deal with it if it is concerned
express consent, the processing infringes Article 9 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
paragraph.
In its information on the action taken on the request, the Data Controller noted that
that the Authority 's concerns regarding the voluntary nature of the consent were raised solely by the
may arise in connection with the data of the volunteers responsible for the signature collection sheets, i.e. the signatories
for the majority of the database
they are not at all, so it is not clear to him why the summons covers the whole
database.
In response to a question from the Authority, the Data Controller stated that he would base his position on:
the Authority has previously complained, in the context of volunteering, that it is natural to fill in the sheets
persons - that is, who you refer to as volunteers / activists in your previous replies - the upload
They also subscribed to the newsletter during the year, and there was no way to ignore it during the upload. THE
this argument would not apply to the personal data of the persons on the completed sheets
17

can be interpreted as the signatories were not present at the time of the upload, so it is
they must not be affected by the characteristics of the consent obtained in connection with Volunteers / activists and
a set of signatories may have an engraving, and there may be persons who have either only their signatures
they supported the initiative or just collected and filled out sheets. The
however, the question of volunteering arose in connection with the filling of the sheets, so that
related to the processing of data on volunteers / activists.
Furthermore, as stated in recital (42), the Data Controller considers that
the consent shall be deemed to be valid if the controller and the purpose are indicated, and
information was also appropriate because of the particular context and information available
activists could know the legal basis for data management.
According to the information on the main page of the signature collection form, if someone a
He wanted to support the initiative in the following ways: “This completed sheet
can be returned by post to 1358. Budapest, Széchenyi rakpart 19. Office of the Parliament, dr.
Hadházy
Ákos
to the address
you can cast
one
collection point
obsession
you can upload
the
https://europaiugyeszseget.hu/feltoltes site ”.
However, the Authority found that, as stated by the Data Controller, the facts
confirmed that anyone could download the sheets from the website,
then
it
the
above
wrote
ways
could deliver
el
the
To the data controller.
The
arc
https://europaiugyeszseget.hu/feltoltes based on this information
also had the opportunity for anyone, even as a supporter of the initiative, to do so,
either as a volunteer or as an activist. During the upload or to make it successful
however, the following personal details were required: name (surname and
first name), e-mail address, county, town, telephone, and the Data Management was mandatory
acceptance of information, ie personal data provided when uploading the forms online
In accordance with the above, the data subject has given their consent to the management of the
their personal data and the Privacy Notice have been provided in the required fields
check box next to. It was therefore not possible to fill in the arc until the
personal data requested by the uploader, whether in support of the initiative or voluntarily,
even activist - did not specify or select the check box.
In the Authority's view, the provision of data cannot be considered when uploading the forms online
at the same time, the consent of the data subject to the processing of his or her data for the purposes of contact
without providing the data, ie in case of refusal of consent
it was not possible for the data subject to complete the signature collection form through the site.
One of the most important elements of a valid consent is the General Data Protection Regulation
is defined as volunteering. The contribution is voluntary and its
nor does it affect the validity of the person's completion of the sheet
did so, either as a volunteer or as an activist in the campaign.
In its reply to the Authority 's second request, the Data Controller reiterated that
Only signatures were raised by the Authority in relation to the voluntary nature of the consent
may arise in connection with the data of the volunteers responsible for the sheets, so it is not clear that the
prompt why it covers the entire database or why the contact information is not separate
data relating to the database in general and to data relating to volunteers
prompt. This data is from other personal contact data
they can be separated and managed in a separate IT database.

18

b) Adequate handling of the data to be provided when uploading the forms online
lack of information
The legal basis and purpose of the processing of personal data to be provided during the online upload
In connection with the provision of information, the Authority found that the Data Protection Authority
as set out in the Data Protection Information linked on the Upload page
stated legal basis for consent - contradict the Real Data Management Information
the legal basis of the data processing has not been indicated in the prospectus, only
they shall inform those concerned of the purpose of the processing in their opinion.
Regarding the information on the duration of the data processing during the procedure of the Authority
found that, as stated in the prospectus, it was provided when uploading the forms online
personal data will be processed until the end of the signature collection operation, but with a specific date for this
was not indicated, so it is not clear to those concerned that their data will be
How long the data controller will handle it.
According to the prospectus, further provided on the form with the Data Controller's political activity
the newsletter has also been subscribed, the data until the consent is withdrawn
treated. The Authority concluded during the investigation that online uploading is mandatory
The form to be filled in did not include an option to subscribe to a newsletter, therefore
uploading the forms online could also mean subscribing to the newsletter, for which purpose
data subjects were therefore unable to give their consent separately.
Therefore, the Data Controller did not provide clear, relevant and real information to the data subjects
processing of personal data provided when uploading forms through the website
in breach of Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation
Article 5 (1) (a), Article 5 (2) and Article 13 (1) to (2).
III.3. Legal consequences
III.3.1. The Authority shall act in accordance with Article 58 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation
Notes that the Data Controller has infringed Article 6 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation
and Article 9 (1) by treating data subjects without a valid legal basis
personal data collected for contact purposes, as the data subjects are for data processing purposes
its contribution lacks the essential conceptual elements necessary to
that the legal basis for the processing, ie in this case the consent, is valid.
The Authority finds that the Data Controller has infringed Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation
Paragraph 1 (a), Article 5 (2) and Article 13 by failing to provide
data subjects on all relevant circumstances of the data processing.
III.3.2. The Authority shall instruct the Data Controller to delete the “Join the European
To the prosecution! ” 19 July 2018 and May 2019 in the context of the initiative
30. collected all personal data from data subjects for contact purposes.
III.3.3. The Authority has examined whether a data protection fine against the Data Controller is justified
imposition.
In this context, the Authority complies with Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation and Infotv. 75 / A. § considered all the circumstances of the case. In view of the circumstances of the case, the Authority
also found that, in the case of the infringement found in the present proceedings,
19

a warning is neither a disproportionate nor a dissuasive sanction and therefore a fine
required.
First of all, the Authority took into account that the breach committed by the Data Controller is
in accordance with Article 83 (5) (a) and (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation
constitutes an infringement falling within the category of fines because it infringes the conditions for consent
and the present decision for non-compliance with a previous request from the Authority
cannot be expected to be complied with without the imposition of a fine.
In imposing the fine, the Authority assessed the following circumstances as aggravating:
-

-

-

due to the quality of the Parliamentary Representatives of the Data Controller, in the opinion of the Authority, the
The data controller is increasingly expected to collect personal data
act in accordance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation [General Data Protection Regulation
Article 83 (2) (a) of the Regulation];
The personal data collected by the Data Controller is a special category of personal data
quality [Article 83 (2) (g) of the General Data Protection Regulation];
Long duration of data processing (from 19 July 2018, ie from the start of collection a
processing of data subjects' personal data for contact purposes to date)
and the large number of people affected by the infringement (approximately 680,000 supporter signatures)
collected during the initiative) [Article 83 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the dot];
The Data Controller apparently sought to comply with data management regulations such as
However, it was expected from the organizer of the initiative and at the same time from the Member of Parliament
take all technical and organizational measures to ensure the adequacy of data management
[Article 83 (2) (d) of the General Data Protection Regulation].

In imposing the fine, the Authority assessed the following circumstances as mitigating circumstances:
-

the Data Controller has previously been subject to the General Data Protection Regulation by the Authority
Has partially complied with its measure ordered pursuant to Article 58 (2);
The Authority assessed the infringement as negligent, as the Data Controller is the data controller
apparently taken steps to ensure its adequacy before
these measures did not result in adequate data management [general
Article 83 (2) (b) of the Data Protection Regulation].

The Authority further noted that
-

the Data Controller has not previously committed relevant, similar to the findings in the present case
infringement [Article 83 (2) (e) of the General Data Protection Regulation];

The amount of the remuneration of the Members of Parliament of the Data Controller (gross gross remuneration) is HUF 1,008,800.
The imposition of a fine on the basis of the above is necessary for the Data Controller specifically, and a
Authority in determining the amount of the fine imposed in addition to the purpose of the special retaliation
also took into account the general preventive purpose to be achieved with the fine, with which - the Data Controller
in order to ensure that the actors in political life are diverse
signatures should not be used to build a sponsorship database without the valid consent of those concerned.
20

The Authority did not consider Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation to be relevant for the imposition of fines.
circumstances referred to in Article 2 (2) (c) (f) (h), (i), (j) and (k)
cannot be interpreted in relation to.
The amount of the fine was determined by the Authority acting in accordance with its statutory discretion.
III.3.4. The Authority shall inform Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (2) (b), the decision shall be made public
because it affects a wide range of persons and performs a public function
in connection with the activity of the person.
Based on the above, the Authority has decided in accordance with the operative part.
ARC. Other issues
The powers of the Authority shall be exercised in accordance with Infotv. Section 38 (2) and (2a), its jurisdiction is
covers the whole country.
This decision is based on Articles 80-81 of the Act. § and Infotv. It is based on Section 60 (1).
The decision is based on Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final upon notification of the decision.
The Ákr. § 112 and § 116 (1), and Art. Pursuant to Section 114 (1) a
There is an administrative remedy against the decision.
***
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure of Administrative Litigation (a
hereinafter: Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (1) by decision of the Authority
The administrative lawsuit against the court falls within the jurisdiction of the court Section 13 (3) a)
Pursuant to paragraph aa) of the Act, the Metropolitan Court has exclusive jurisdiction. A Kp. § 27
Legal representation in proceedings falling within the jurisdiction of the General Court under paragraph 1 (b)
obligatory. Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), unless otherwise provided by law, the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of the administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable in accordance with § 604, electronic
CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of public administration and trust services. Act (a
hereinafter referred to as the Customer's legal representative pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b) of the E-Administration Act
obliged to communicate electronically.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). The
Information on the simplified procedure and the possibility of requesting a hearing a
Kp. Section 77 (1) - (2) and Section 124 (1) and (2) (c), and (5)
based on paragraph The amount of the fee for an administrative lawsuit shall be determined in accordance with Act XCIII of 1990 on Fees.
Act (hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1). Advance payment of the fee
under the Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) (h) exempt the proceedings
initiating party.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 135 (1) (a), the Debtor is entitled to interest at the statutory rate
is obliged to pay a late payment allowance if it fails to meet its payment obligation on time.
Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code 6:48. § (1)
21

in the case of the Debtor, the calendar affected by the delay from the date of the delay
is obliged to pay default interest equal to the central bank base rate valid on the first day of the first half of the year
to pay.
If the Applicant does not duly demonstrate the fulfillment of the required obligation, the Authority shall
considers that it has failed to fulfill its obligations within the prescribed period. The Ákr. According to § 132, if the debtor
has not complied with an obligation contained in the final decision of the authority, it shall be enforceable. The Authority
decision of the Ákr. Pursuant to Section 82 (1), it becomes final with the communication. The Ákr. Section 133
enforcement, unless otherwise provided by law or government decree
ordering authority. The Ákr. Section 134 of the Enforcement - if law, government decree
or in the case of a municipal authority, a decree of a local government does not provide otherwise
carried out by a state tax authority. Infotv. Pursuant to Section 61 (7) in the decision of the Authority
to perform a specific act, conduct or tolerate a specific act
to stop
aimed at
obligation
with regard to
the
decision
implementation
the
Authority.
Budapest, July 9, 2020
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

22

