 

Confidential/Registered
The Minister of Finance
Madam. S.A.M. Kaag MA, MPhil
Short Voorhout 7
2500 EE The Hague

 

Date
April 7, 2022
 
 

 
Subject
Decision to impose a fine
 

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authoritypersonal data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Dear Ms Kaag,
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (hereinafter: AP) has decided to inform the Minister of Finance (hereinafter: the
Minister) to impose administrative fines totaling € 3,700,000. The AP has come to the conclusion that
the Minister as controller for the processing of the Tax and Customs Administration, of 4
November 2013 through February 27, 2020 by processing personal data in the application
Fraud Detection Facility (hereinafter: FSV) has acted contrary to the principles of
lawfulness, purpose specification, correctness and storage limitation.1
 
In addition to violating the four principles mentioned above, the AP concludes that the Tax and Customs Administration
has not taken sufficient appropriate technical and organizational measures with regard to the
access security, logging and checking the logging to ensure an appropriate level of security for the
to safeguard personal data in FSV.2 Finally, the AP has concluded that the Tax and Customs Administration has taken the
data protection officer (hereinafter: DPO) has not properly and lately involved
the implementation of the data protection impact assessment (hereinafter: DIA) of FSV.3
 
The AP explains the decision in more detail below. Chapter 1 is an introduction and Chapter 2 contains the
findings. In chapter 3 the (amount of the) administrative fines are elaborated and chapter 4 contains
finally, the operative part and the legal remedies clause.

                                                                        
1 See article 5, first paragraph, opening lines and under a, of the AVG and article 6 of the Wbp (lawfulness), article 5, first paragraph, opening lines and under
b, of the AVG and article 7 of the Wbp (purpose specification), article 5, first paragraph, preamble and under d, of the AVG and article 11, second paragraph,
of the Wbp (correctness) and Article 5, first paragraph, opening lines and under e, of the AVG and Article 10, first paragraph, of the Wbp (storage limitation).
2 See article 32, first paragraph, of the AVG and article 13 of the Wbp.
3 See article 38, first paragraph, of the GDPR jo. Article 35, second paragraph, of the GDPR.

  

 

1



 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Date
April 7, 2022

 

1 Introduction

1.1 AP investigation
 
The AP has investigated the FSV application that the Tax and Customs Administration has until February 27, 2020.
used. FSV was an application in which signals were recorded about detected fraud and signals
which could indicate an increased risk of tax and benefit fraud. The AP has in this
investigation concluded that the way in which the Tax and Customs Administration has deployed FSV has resulted in several one
has led to serious violations of the General Data Protection Regulation (hereinafter: GDPR) and
the Personal Data Protection Act (hereinafter: Wbp), the law that was applicable until the
entry into force of the GDPR. The AP has included these findings in a report (hereinafter: the
research report) and made this report public on October 29, 2021.4
 
1.2 Process flow
 
For a description of the investigation procedure, the AP refers to chapter 1 of the
research report.
 
In a letter dated November 12, 2021, the AP informed the Minister of its intention to launch a
to impose an administrative sanction and to give the Minister the opportunity to express an opinion
to take.
 
By letter dated 14 January 2022, the Deputy Director General of the
Tax and Customs Administration has submitted a written opinion, in which the aforementioned violations are noted
recognized and in which the measures taken and to be taken are discussed in more detail.5
 

2. Findings

The AP bases this decision on the investigation report and the findings contained therein. That
facts are supported by the evidence. The Minister does not have the facts laid down in the investigation report
contradicted and furthermore the Minister acknowledged the violations based on those facts.
 
In section 2.1, the DPA briefly discusses the observed violations. For a complete overview
of all relevant actual conduct and findings – insofar as they are not mentioned here –
the AP refers to chapters 3 and 4 of the research report. After that, the AP gives in paragraph
2.2 the view of the Minister again.

                                                                        
4 https://autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/nl/nieuws/zwarte-lijst-fsv-van-belastingdienst-conflict-met-de-wet.
5 The deputy director-general of the Tax and Customs Administration noted in the written opinion that – in view of the
division of tasks within the Ministry of Finance – submitted the opinion. For the sake of readability of this decision
hereinafter referred to as “Minister”.

 

 

2/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
2.1 Summary of findings
 
In FSV, the Tax and Customs Administration mainly included persons who had committed fraud and persons
suspected of having committed tax or benefits fraud.
FSV was used within the Tax and Customs Administration when assessing tax returns and applications for
surcharges and was used to register information requests from other governments. FSV
was also consulted for the preparation of risk models and for determining whether a fine should be imposed
are imposed in the context of the collection of tax or benefit debts.
 
In the period from 4 November 2013 to 27 February 2020, the Tax and Customs Administration received signals from
suspected and established fraud and information requests in FSV registered, modified, consulted,
used, combined and spread outside FSV over at least 244,273 persons and 30,000
entrepreneurs. The Tax and Customs Administration thus has personal data (including data about health,
nationality and criminal personal data) processed within the meaning of Article 4, preamble and under 1, 2 and
15 of the AVG, article 10 of the AVG and article 1, preamble and under a and b, of the Wbp and article 16 of the
Wbp.
 
The AP establishes that the Minister is the controller for the processing of
personal data in FSV by the Tax and Customs Administration, as referred to in Article 4, preamble and under 7, of the
AVG and article 1, preamble and under d, of the Wbp. Where this decision refers to the Tax and Customs Administration
the AP equates this with the Minister.
 
The AP then establishes that from November 4, 2013 to February 27, 2020, the Tax and Customs Administration
the processing of personal data in FSV has acted contrary to the principles of
lawfulness, purpose specification, correctness and storage limitation. The AP explains these violations below.
 
Personal data should be processed in accordance with the principle of lawfulness,
as referred to in Article 5, first paragraph, opening words and under a, of the AVG and Article 6 of the Wbp. This means that
there must be a basis for the processing of personal data as stated in Article 6, first paragraph,
of the AVG and article 8 Wbp. The AP concludes that for the processing of personal data
FSV was not a basis. The Tax and Customs Administration was unable to successfully appeal for those processing operations
based on the 'legal obligation', because there was no obligation to report signals of
to process (possible) fraud and requests for information as counter-information.
 
The Tax and Customs Administration's appeal on the basis of 'necessary for the fulfillment of a task of
public interest or of a task in the exercise of public authority' also fails.
The system of the General Act on State Taxes, the General Income Dependent Act
regulations, Title 5.2 of the Awb and the substantive legislation, the Tax and Customs Administration does provide the
authority to (in concrete cases) collect personal data for supervisory purposes.
But this legislation is not precise enough to serve as a basis for a separate, structural,
extensive and segment-transcending collection of multifarious, (too) detailed (special and
criminal) personal data in FSV. In addition, the processing in FSV was not necessary

 

 

3/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
for the performance of the Tax and Customs Administration's public task of supervising compliance with
the provisions of or pursuant to tax and benefit legislation. Because it has not been fulfilled
principle of proportionality because the infringement on the interests of the data subjects was disproportionate
proportion to the purpose to be served with the processing, whereby the purposes of FSV are not
defined and therefore unclear. The AP is also of the opinion that it is not up to the
principle of subsidiarity is met because the aim pursued can be achieved in a different, less far-reaching way
be served, namely without FSV or with the design of another more limited application.
 
Personal data should also be processed in accordance with the principle of
purpose specification, as laid down in Article 5, first paragraph, opening lines and under b, of the GDPR and Article 7 of the
Wbp. This means that personal data is only used for specific and explicitly described purposes
may be collected. After investigation, the AP concludes that the pre-formulated purposes of
the collection of personal data in FSV were not well defined.
 
Personal data should also be processed in accordance with the principle of correctness,
as included in Article 5, first paragraph, opening lines and under d, of the GDPR and Article 11, second paragraph, of the
Wbp. This means that personal data must be correct and, if necessary, must be updated. The
AP finds that there were incorrect and non-updated personal data in FSV and the
Tax and Customs Administration has not taken reasonable measures to rectify this personal data or
to delete.
 
Personal data should also be processed in accordance with the principle of
storage limitation, as laid down in Article 5, first paragraph, opening lines and under e, of the GDPR and Article 10,
first paragraph of the Wbp. This means that personal data may not be kept longer than
necessary. It follows from the AP's investigation that the personal data were kept longer in FSV
than the retention period applicable to the personal data in FSV. This saved the
Tax and Customs Administration the personal data (therefore) for longer than necessary.
 
In addition to violating the four standards mentioned above and underlying them
principles, the AP concludes that the Tax and Customs Administration has insufficiently appropriate technical and
has taken organizational measures with regard to access security, logging and control
on the logging to ensure an appropriate level of security for the personal data in FSV.
As a result, from November 4, 2013 to February 27, 2020, the Tax and Customs Administration acted in violation of
Article 32, first paragraph, of the AVG and Article 13 of the Wbp.
 
Finally, the AP concludes that the Tax and Customs Administration did not properly and timely involve the DPO
the implementation of the GEB of FSV. With this conduct, the Tax and Customs Administration acted in violation of
Article 38, first paragraph, of the GDPR jo. Article 35, second paragraph, of the GDPR.
 
 
 

 

 

4/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
2.2 View of the Minister
 
The Minister endorses the facts and conclusions in the investigation report of the AP. FSV was not on
may be used in this way, the Minister has acknowledged. The conclusions of the AP are in line with
earlier conclusions of the Tax and Customs Administration that led to the elimination of FSV.
 
The Minister declares that the Tax and Customs Administration has informed the citizens concerned who were included in the FSV
informs them about their registration and informs them the reason why they were registered in FSV. As the
The Tax and Customs Administration does not know the reason for a registration in FSV, the Tax and Customs Administration will let the
stakeholders also know. The Tax and Customs Administration informs those involved of their right of access and informs them
them that they can contact the Tax and Customs Administration by telephone and also that they can obtain more information
can be found on the FSV webpage. There is a reporting center FSV, intended for citizens who suspect that they
have had undue consequences of their registration in FSV. If there is more clarity about the answer
when asked with which organizations the Tax and Customs Administration has shared data from FSV, the
stakeholders are also informed. At the moment, about 200,000 people involved have received a letter
received from the Tax Authorities about their registration in FSV. About 100,000 of them have the reason
of that registration in FSV.
 
The Tax and Customs Administration is having further research carried out into the effects of a registration in FSV, on the external one
data sharing from FSV and to the queries used. Ahead of the outcomes of this
investigations, a compensation scheme is being worked out for the unjustly affected citizens.
 
Partly in response to the problems with FSV, the Tax and Customs Administration started the
program 'Repair, improve and safeguard' (hereinafter: HVB). HVB contains promotions, which are since March 2020
used to solve the problems in the way in which the Tax and Customs Administration has dealt with
(personal) registrations, risk models and the use of personal data such as nationality.
 
The executive directorates-general (Tax Office, Benefits, Customs) work together with it
Ministry of Finance (policy department) on action plans to improve the
privacy organization from a central and decentralized point of view. In the action plans, including that of the
Tax and Customs Administration, among other things, the current and additional measures will be presented for the
(structural) compliance with these laws and regulations. About the follow-up of the action plans
periodically reported to the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Finance.
 
In addition, the Tax and Customs Administration is working on a new process for handling signals with a
temporary technical facility. The conclusions from the AP's research report have been used in the
compile the custom GEB of this process. The Tax and Customs Administration has offered the modified GEB
to the DPO for advice. The GEB is then presented to the AP for advice.
 
The Minister also stated that work is being done on the Bill on Guarantees
data processing by the Tax and Customs Administration, Allowances and Customs. The bill aims to lay the foundations for
strengthen the processing of personal data by the Tax and Customs Administration, Allowances and Customs and

 

 

5/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
make it future-proof. In addition, the bill aims to create a legal framework for the
guaranteeing lawful, proper and transparent data processing by these three
implementing organizations.
 
Finally, the Tax and Customs Administration realizes that fundamental improvements are needed in dealing with
personal data and the Tax and Customs Administration will make every effort to prevent recurrence in the future
prevent, said the Minister.
 

3. Fines

3.1 Introduction
 
The AP has established that the Minister, as controller of the processing in FSV
by the Tax and Customs Administration, has acted contrary to the principles of lawfulness, purpose specification,
accuracy and storage limitation. The AP has also determined that the Minister does not have an appropriate
security level for the personal data in FSV and furthermore that the DPO does not go to
properly and was not timely involved in the implementation of the GEB of FSV.
 
The AP uses its power to impose fines on the Minister for the aforementioned
violations. Because of the seriousness of the violations and the extent to which they can be held accountable to the Minister
are blamed, the AP deems the imposition of fines appropriate. Since in this case there is
continuous violations that have taken place under both the Wbp and the AVG (with
exception of the involvement of the DPO), the DPA tested against the substantive law as it applied
at the time the conduct occurred. These provisions are intended to promote the same legal interests
guarantees. There is no (substantial) material change to the regulations on this point.
 
The AP motivates the imposition of the fines in the following. The AP first briefly sets the fine system
apart. This is followed by the motivation of the fines for the violations of the
basic principles of the GDPR. Next comes the violation of the obligation to guarantee a
appropriate security level for the personal data in FSV and then the requirement of
proper and timely involvement of the DPO in the implementation of the GEB. Finally, the AP assesses whether
the application of the fining policy leads to a proportionate outcome.
 
3.2 Penalty Policy Rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019
 
Pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph, opening words and under i and Article 83, fourth paragraph, of the GDPR, read in
connection with Article 14, third paragraph, of the UAVG, the AP is competent in the event of a violation of
Article 32 of the AVG and Article 35, second paragraph, of the AVG to impose an administrative fine up to
€10,000,000.
 

 

 

6/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph, opening words and under i and Article 83, fifth paragraph, of the GDPR, read in
connection with Article 14, third paragraph, of the UAVG, the AP is competent in the event of a violation of
Article 5 of the GDPR to impose an administrative fine of up to € 20,000,000.
 
The AP has established Fining Policy Rules regarding the implementation of the aforementioned power to
imposing an administrative fine, including determining the amount thereof.6 In the
Penalty policy rules have been chosen for a category classification and bandwidth system.

Violation of Article 5, paragraph 1, under a of the GDPR has been made dependent on the underlying
provision, being article 6, first paragraph, of the GDPR. Category III applies to this, with a fine range
between €300,000 and €750,000 and a basic fine of €525,000.
 
Violations of Article 5, first paragraph, under b, d and e of the GDPR are also classified in category III,
with a fine range between €300,000 and €750,000 and a basic fine of €525,000.
 
Violations of Article 32 of the GDPR and Article 35, paragraph 2, of the GDPR are categorized
II. Category II has a fine range between €120,000 and €500,000 and a basic fine of
€310,000.
 
3.3 Fine amount regarding the general principles of the GDPR and the security of
processing of personal data
 
Lawfulness is one of the basic principles of data protection. A processing of
personal data is lawful if it takes place on the basis of a legal basis. In the event of interference
right to respect for the private life of citizens is particularly important to the Tax and Customs Administration as
public authority must be able to base its actions on a sufficiently clear, precise and
predictable legal requirement. The IRS has failed in this. Because the tax authorities
has processed personal data in FSV without a basis, is the core of the right to protection of
personal data of many citizens violated.
 
In addition, personal data may only be processed if it is - explicit and
legitimate - purpose of the processing cannot be reasonably achieved in any other way
accomplished. The controller must also take all reasonable measures to ensure that
to ensure that any personal data found to be incorrect is rectified or erased and that personal data
not be kept longer than necessary. The AP has determined that there are incorrect personal data
are included in FSV and that this data has also been kept longer than necessary.
 
To prevent the situation in which organizations infringe the processing of personal data
With regard to the privacy of citizens, the AP also considers it very important that organizations have a risk-based approach
apply security level. When determining the risk for the data subject, the nature is, among other things
of the personal data and the scope of the processing are important: after all, these factors determine the

                                                                        
6 Stct. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.

 

 

7/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
potential damage for the individual data subject in the event of loss, alteration or unlawful, for example
processing of the data. As the personal data has a more sensitive character, or the
context in which they are used pose a greater threat to privacy,
stricter requirements are imposed on the security of personal data. The AP is of the opinion that the
Tax and Customs Administration has taken insufficient measures with regard to access security,
logging and checking the logging to ensure an appropriate level of security for the personal data in FSV
guarantees.
 
The AP has concluded that the Tax and Customs Administration applies the above principles with regard to FSV
insufficiently complied with. These principles guarantee the integrity of personal data and couples
citizens to retain control over their own data. That is very important, because a
unlawful processing of personal data can have far-reaching consequences for the personal
sphere of life. The AP explains these consequences and the seriousness of the violations below.
 
3.3.1 The nature, seriousness and duration of the infringements
Given the nature and scope of the unlawful processing of personal data in FSV, the AP
believes that the violations by the Tax and Customs Administration are very serious. The Tax and Customs Administration has in FSV
unlawfully processed more than 540,000 signals relating to more than 270,000 data subjects.
This very large group of citizens, including hundreds of minors, have been seriously affected in their rights
on the protection of personal data. In doing so, the AP takes into account that the citizens involved in relation to
of the Tax and Customs Administration are in a dependent and unequal position. After all, a citizen has at the
Tax authorities only the obligation to file a tax return or the possibility to do certain
to apply for surcharges. After submitting the opinion of the Tax and Customs Administration, it turned out that the
The Tax and Customs Administration has also shared data from FSV with other government agencies and private parties
parties.7 The AP considers it reprehensible that the Tax and Customs Administration – in view of its broad powers and the
unequal position it occupies vis-à-vis the citizen - in this case extraordinary
misused its powers.
 
With regard to the duration of the violations, the AP has determined that the Tax and Customs Administration has committed the violations
during a period of more than six years, namely from November 4, 2013 to February 27
committed in 2020. The fact that the violations thus occur in a structural manner for a longer period of time
have continued, the AP considers very serious.8
 
The consequences for citizens who were included in the FSV as (potential) fraudsters could be very significant. In
In some cases, a citizen was labeled a 'fraudster' without this following from a thorough
research. And if an investigation had been done and there turned out to be no fraud, then this was
conclusion often not recorded in FSV, so that the suspicion of fraud remained in FSV. A

                                                                        
7 Parliamentary Papers II 2021/22, 31 066, no. 957.
8 Because the AP has only had the authority to fine the aforementioned violations since 1 January 2016, it takes
In the context of the (increase of the) fine, only consider the duration from 1 January 2016. In that case, too, there is a long term
violations.

 

 

8/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
registration in FSV (possibly in combination with other indications), could then lead to that citizen
to stigmatisation, more intensive supervision and/or had negative financial consequences.
 
The more intensive supervision could, for example, result in a disadvantage for the income tax return
of that citizen was corrected or that an application for eligibility for care, rental or
childcare allowance was rejected. Also requests for a personal payment arrangement with a
benefit debt or amicable debt restructuring in the event of a tax or benefit debt are automatic
rejected because of that citizen's FSV registration. This has left citizens in uncertainty for a very long time
wrong about their financial situation. Those involved were not further informed about the fact that they were in
FSV, not even after a request for inspection to that effect. This has resulted in that
data subjects did not know that they were listed in FSV and could therefore not exercise their rights.
 
Research by the Tax and Customs Administration has also shown that examples have been found in
communication within the Tax and Customs Administration and between the Tax and Customs Administration and other government institutions
on the identification of risks, whereby a fraud risk was indicated on personal characteristics such as
nationality and appearance. In (instruction) documents, for example, the foreign
nationality (such as Turkish, Moroccan and Eastern European) used as selection criterion for further tax
to research. But also donations to mosques and high deductions due to tax. medication use
taxpayers with surnames ending in “–ić” were used as risk indicators for
fraud.9 This unequal treatment in fraud risk selection carries a high risk of stigmatisation.
In addition, it has not become apparent that the Tax and Customs Administration has acted in a discriminatory and therefore improper manner
data processing had a reasonable and objective justification.
  
The AP is aware of the consequences of the inadequate security of personal data
next on. Due to the inadequate security of FSV, unauthorized employees of the
Tax and Customs Administration view personal data in FSV. Signals from FSV are regularly exported for it
creating a so-called subset outside FSV, so that people who had no access to FSV
could search in it. Due to the shortcomings in access security and in the (checking of) logging
could the data be misused? The Tax and Customs Administration therefore had no insight into this
the further processing of the (exported) data.
 
3.3.2 Categories of personal data
The Tax and Customs Administration processed many (different) personal data in FSV. A signal in FSV existed in
in any case from a citizen service number, and a number of completed fields including name and address
data, account number and IP address. Sometimes a signal contained the nationality of persons and
documents on committed offenses and criminal convictions. The tax
furthermore, where appropriate, also processed data about the physical or mental health of
citizens. This is a special category of personal data that enjoys extra protection under the GDPR. The
The AP also found that signals could contain data about individuals to whom the signal did not
(directly) saw, such as family members, tax service providers and childminders. Considering the size and sensitivity

                                                                        
9 Parliamentary Papers II 2021/22, 31 066, no. 977.

 

 

9/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
nature of the - also - special personal data, the AP also considers the violations based on this
particularly serious.
 
3.3.3 Culpability and Serious Negligence
Since this concerns violations, the imposition of an administrative fine is in accordance with fixed rules
case law does not require that it be demonstrated that there is intent. The AP is allowed culpability
assume if the perpetrator is established. The Minister must act as controller
pursuant to the GDPR, observe the aforementioned basic principles when processing personal data
to take. The AP has determined that the Minister as controller under the GDPR
when processing personal data in FSV has acted contrary to the principles of
lawfulness, purpose specification, correctness and storage limitation. In addition, the Minister does not have one
an appropriate level of security for the personal data in FSV is guaranteed. The AP considers this culpable.
 
In addition, according to the AP, there is serious negligence on the part of the Minister and the
Tax authorities. Citizens who are obliged to provide personal data to the tax authorities
must be able to assume that the Tax and Customs Administration - as a government agency - will take the necessary measures
has taken to process personal data lawfully, correctly and securely. This has the tax authorities
left behind. The Tax and Customs Administration has had personal data for many years, including special personal data
such as medical data, unlawfully processed in FSV. The working method of the tax authorities
was also in some cases discriminatory in nature and thus led to stigmatisation,
more intensive supervision and/or resulted in negative financial consequences. Even after her own internal
conclusion from January 2019 that the data processing in FSV did not comply with the GDPR, the
The Tax and Customs Administration and also the Minister failed to intervene immediately. The AP therefore comes to the conclusion
that the Tax and Customs Administration - under the responsibility of the Minister - has been seriously culpably negligent
acted.
 
3.3.4 Previous Relevant Breaches
When determining the amount of the fine, the AP may consider previous relevant infringements by the
controller. That is the case in this case. The AP has the
Minister for the following violations in the period from 2018 to 2021. On July 3, 2018, the AP
concluded that the Tax and Customs Administration, with regard to the logging, the monitoring of the logging and the
access security at the Data Fundamentals & Analytics department acted contrary to article 13 Wbp and
32 GDPR. As of January 1, 2020, the AP has imposed a processing ban on the Minister because of the
unlawful processing of the BSN in the VAT identification number. And on November 25, 2021, the
AP imposed administrative fines on the Minister in the so-called Childcare Allowance Affair, because the
The Tax and Customs Administration has been recording the (dual) nationality of applicants for childcare benefits for years
unlawfully processed.
 
Now that the AP has once again determined that the Minister has personal data without a legal basis
processed and has insufficiently secured, the AP considers these previously established violations
relevant previous infringements. The AP notes that this points to ongoing problems of a structural nature
which can lead to no other conclusion than that at the Tax and Customs Administration, the official management of the

 

 

10/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
department and the Minister for years there has been widespread negligence, negligence and
even discriminatory and therefore improper behavior in the application of legal rules regarding
data protection.
 
3.3.5 Amount of fines
Based on the above considerations, the AP determines the amount of the fines as follows.
 
Legal basis
Because of the serious consequences of the lack of a legal basis and because there is
previous relevant infringements as referred to in paragraph 3.3.4, the AP is of the opinion that the
offense linked fine category does not lead to an appropriate punishment. The AP therefore concludes with
application of Article 8.1 of the Fining Policy Rules when determining the fine amount is the next higher
category to apply.
 
For violation of article 5, first paragraph, under a jo. Article 6, first paragraph, of the GDPR and in view of the
the aforementioned considerations, the AP sees reason to impose a fine on the Minister. The AP
increases the basic amount of € 725,000:

- with € 155,000 based on the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement (article 7 sub a
Penalty Policy) and the circumstances as stated in paragraph 3.3.1 with;

- with € 90,000 on the basis of the negligent nature of the infringement (article 7 sub b Fining Policy Rules) and

the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.3; and

- with € 30,000 based on the categories of personal data (article 7 sub g

Fining Policy Rules) and the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.2.
 

This fine therefore amounts to a total of € 1,000,000.
 
Purpose limitation
Because of the violation of the rules regarding purpose limitation (Article 5, first paragraph, under b of the
GDPR) and the aforementioned considerations, the AP sees reason to impose a fine on the Minister
lay. The AP increases the basic amount of € 525,000:

- with € 125,000 on the basis of the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement (article 7 sub a

Penalty Policy) and the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.1;

- with € 75,000 on the basis of the negligent nature of the infringement (article 7 sub b Fining Policy Rules) and

the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.3; and

- with € 25,000 based on the categories of personal data (article 7 sub g

Fining Policy Rules) and the circumstances as stated in paragraph 3.3.2.

 
This fine therefore amounts to a total of € 750,000.
 
 
 
 

 

 

11/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Correctness
Due to the incorrect and non-updated personal data in FSV (Article 5, first paragraph, under d of the
GDPR) and the aforementioned considerations, the AP sees reason to impose a fine on the Minister
lay. The AP increases the basic amount of € 525,000:

- with € 125,000 on the basis of the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement (article 7 sub a

Penalty Policy) and the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.1;

- with € 75,000 on the basis of the negligent nature of the infringement (article 7 sub b Fining Policy Rules) and

the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.3; and

- 2 with € 25,000 based on the categories of personal data (article 7 sub g

Fining Policy Rules) and the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.2.

 
This fine therefore amounts to a total of € 750,000.
 
Storage limitation
Due to violation of the rules regarding storage limitation (article 5, first paragraph, under e of the GDPR) and
the aforementioned considerations see the AP as a reason to impose a fine on the Minister. The
AP increases the base amount of €525,000:

- with € 125,000 on the basis of the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement (article 7 sub a

Penalty Policy) and the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.1;

- with € 75,000 on the basis of the negligent nature of the infringement (article 7 sub b Fining Policy Rules) and

the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.3; and

- with € 25,000, based on the categories of personal data (article 7 sub g

Fining Policy Rules) and the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.2

 
This fine therefore amounts to a total of € 750,000.
 
Security
Due to violation of the rules regarding security (article 32, first paragraph, of the GDPR) and
the aforementioned considerations see the AP as a reason to impose a fine on the Minister. The
AP increases the basic amount of € 310,000

- with € 90,000, based on the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement (article 7 sub a

Penalty Policy) and the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.1;

- with € 50,000, based on the negligent nature of the infringement (article 7 sub b Fining Policy Rules) and

the circumstances as stated in section 3.3.3;

- with € 30,000, based on the previous relevant infringement from 2018 as stated in paragraph 3.3.4

(article 7 sub e Fining Policy Rules);

- with € 20,000, based on the categories of personal data (article 7 sub g

Fining Policy Rules) and the circumstances as stated in paragraph 3.3.2

 
This fine therefore amounts to a total of € 500,000.
 

 

 

12/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
3.4 Fine amount for involvement of data protection officer
 
The DPO supports the controller in, among other things, monitoring internal compliance
of the GDPR. It is important for this that the controller ensures that the DPO is sent to
is properly and timely involved in all matters related to the protection of
personal data. The AP has determined that the Tax and Customs Administration has not properly and not timely informed the DPO
involved in the implementation of the Data Protection Impact Assessment (DIA) of FSV.
 
The Tax and Customs Administration carried out the GEB from November 6, 2018 to January 21, 2019.
years after this period, the DPO was only asked to advise on the GEB. The Tax and Customs Administration therefore has its FG
not asked for advice during the implementation of the GEB. The consequence of this is that the DPO does not fulfill his duties
properly and was therefore unable to advise the Tax and Customs Administration in a timely manner on compliance
of the GDPR. With a timely consultation, the DPO could have warned the Tax and Customs Administration earlier on the
risks related to the unlawful processing of personal data in FSV.
 
As described earlier, the Tax and Customs Administration has processed a great deal of (sensitive) personal data in FSV
of hundreds of thousands of citizens. Especially with large-scale processing of personal data that up to
can lead to adverse consequences for a large number of parties involved, the Tax and Customs Administration must timely submit a GEB
and to ask the DPO for advice in this regard. The AP is of the opinion that there is a serious
violation by the Tax and Customs Administration, where the Minister is responsible as controller
before.
 
Finally, the AP comes to the conclusion that the Tax and Customs Administration, under
responsibility of the Minister, has acted seriously culpably negligently. That the IRS
more than a year after the implementation of the GEB and only in response to questions from the media about FSV,
has asked the DPO for advice, the AP considers it very negligent.
 
Now that the Tax and Customs Administration has not obtained the advice of the DPO in time when implementing the GEB, there is
there is a violation of Article 35, second paragraph, of the AVG. In view of this and the above
circumstances, the AP sees reason to impose a fine on the Minister. The AP raises it
basic amount of €310,000 due to 1) the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement with €70,000 due to (2) the
negligence with €50,000 and due to (3) the categories of personal data with €20,000. With that
this fine amounts to a total of € 450,000.
 
3.5 Proportionality
 
Finally, the AP assesses on the basis of Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the Awb (proportionality principle)
application of its policy for determining the amount of the fine given the circumstances of the
specific case, does not lead to a disproportionate outcome. Application of the proportionality principle is possible
among other things play a role in the accumulation of sanctions. In addition, pursuant to Article 83, third paragraph, of
the GDPR, the total fine will not exceed that for the most serious infringement, if the

 

 

13/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
controller in relation to the same or related thereto
processing activities infringe several provisions of the GDPR.
 
In this case, the AP will impose an administrative fine for violation of Article 5, first paragraph, under a (jo.
Article 6, first paragraph), b, d and e of the GDPR, Article 32, first paragraph, of the GDPR and Article 35, second paragraph, of the
AVG. Although the offenses committed violate different interests and on that basis separately
can be fined, the AP sees in this case the connection between the lack of a legal basis and
the storage limitation as a relevant factor to determine the penalty for violation of the storage limitation
moderate by € 500,000.
 
The AP sets the total amount of the fines imposed at € 3,700,000. In the context of
Article 10 of the Fining Policy Rules, the AP determines that the total fine is not higher than the statutory
maximum fine (€ 20,000,000) for the most serious violation.
 
The AP is of the opinion that (the amount of) the total fine amount is not disproportionate.10 The AP has in this
assess, among other things, the seriousness of the violations and the extent to which these are attributable to the Minister
can be blamed. Due to the nature and duration of the violations, the far-reaching consequences
for the data subjects and the previous relevant breaches, the AP qualifies the relevant breaches
the GDPR as serious.
 
3.6 Conclusion
 
The AP sets the total amount of the fines imposed at € 3,700,000.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                                                        
10 See also sections 3.3 and 3.4 for the justification.

 

 

14/16



 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Date
April 7, 2022

 

4. Operative part

 

 

 

 

 

 

I. The AP imposes a fine on the Minister of Finance in the amount of € 1,000,000 (in words: one

million euros), because there are no legal requirements for the processing of personal data in FSV
basis was. As a result, the Minister of Finance has Article 5, first paragraph, preamble and under a jo.
Article 6, paragraph 1, of the GDPR.

II. The AP imposes a fine of € 750,000 on the Minister of Finance (in words:

seven hundred and fifty thousand euros), because the personal data in FSV violates the principle
of target specification have been processed. As a result, the Minister of Finance has Article 5, first paragraph,
preamble and under b of the GDPR.

III. The AP imposes a fine of € 750,000 on the Minister of Finance (in words:

seven hundred and fifty thousand euros), because the personal data in FSV violates the principle
processed correctly. As a result, the Minister of Finance has Article 5, first paragraph, opening words
and under d of the GDPR.

IV. The AP imposes a fine of € 250,000 on the Minister of Finance (in words:

two hundred and fifty thousand euros), because the personal data in FSV violates the principle
of storage limitation have been processed. As a result, the Minister of Finance has Article 5, first paragraph,
preamble and under e of the GDPR.

V. The AP imposes a fine of € 500,000 on the Minister of Finance (in words:

five hundred thousand euros), because for the personal data in FSV an insufficiently appropriate
level of security is guaranteed. As a result, the Minister of Finance has Article 32, first paragraph,
of the GDPR.

VI. The AP imposes a fine of € 450,000 on the Minister of Finance (in words:

four hundred and fifty thousand euros), because the advice of the DPO cannot be taken during the execution of the
GEB has been obtained. As a result, the Minister of Finance has Article 35, second paragraph, of the GDPR
violate.

 
Yours faithfully,
Authority for Personal Data,
 
e.g.
 
 
Mr. A. Wolfsen
Chair

 

 

15/16



 

Date
April 7, 2022

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can within six weeks from the date of sending it
decides to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. In accordance
Article 38 of the UAVG suspends the effect of the decision until submitting a notice of objection
imposition of an administrative fine. For submitting a digital objection, see
www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objecting to a decision, at the bottom of the
page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The address for submission on paper
is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague.
Mention 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'bezwaarschrift' in the title of your letter.
Write in your notice of objection at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your objection;
- the reference referred to in this letter (case number); or enclose a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you disagree with this decision;
- your signature.

 

 

16/16

