
On Monday, October 24, the coalition of health associations organized a round table "Secondary use of data in health care" in which Iva Katić, secretary of the Cabinet of Directors, participated. The round table discussion stimulated the discussion about the importance of health and medical data of patients in the health system, in order to monitor its quality, treatment outcomes and effectiveness, as well as patient safety. Also, there was talk about the proposal of the European Commission on the establishment of a European space for health data, which should encourage individuals to take control of their own health data, support the use of health data for better healthcare provision, better research, innovation and policy-making, and enable the EU - to fully exploit the potential offered by the safe and secure exchange, use and reuse of health data.
Thus, Iva Katić spoke about the way in which the Proposal for the Regulation on the European Health Data Space (EU Health Data Space) affects the processing of health data. Namely, the processing in question will include the processing of large amounts of data that are of a very sensitive nature, therefore it is of the utmost importance that this Proposal does not in any way threaten the rights of individuals from the European Economic Area, which are guaranteed to them by the General Data Protection Regulation.
She emphasized that it is necessary to enable the EU to fully exploit the potential offered by the safe exchange and use of personal data, supporting the use of health data for better healthcare delivery, policy making and scientific research, however, while respecting all guaranteed rights.
At the end, she pointed out that sometimes the GDPR is used as an excuse not to do something, which results from insufficient familiarity with the regulations governing the area of personal data protection, and that the Agency organizes regular trainings on the GDPR and its application in practice.
At the round table, all the panelists, including B.Sc. ing. med. biochem. Katarina Gvozdanović, founder and leader of the SEKA working group, Ph.D. Ivan Pristaš, representative of the Croatian Institute for Public Health and the Ministry of Health, prof. Ph.D. Stjepko Pleština, head of the KBC Zagreb Oncology Clinic, Ljiljana Vukota, association SVE za NJU, Tanja Malbaša, Association of Multiple Sclerosis Societies of Croatia, agreed that the establishment of the European data space for health data would have a positive effect on the processes of data collection and management in the healthcare of the Republic Croatian.


