 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 

Guidelines 07/2022 on certification as a tool for transfers 

 
 

Version 2.0 

Adopted on 14 February 2023 

 

Adopted 

1 

VERSION HISTORY 

 

 
 

Version 1.0 

14 June 2022 

Adoption of the Guidelines for public consultation 

Version 2.0 

14 February 2023 

Adoption of the Guidelines after public consultation 

 

Adopted 

2 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

 
The GDPR requires in its Article 46 that data exporters shall put in place appropriate safeguards for 
transfers of personal data to third countries or international organisations. To that end, the GDPR di-
versifies the appropriate safeguards that may be used by data exporters under Article 46 for framing 
transfers to third countries by introducing, amongst others, certification as a new transfer mechanism 
(Articles 42 (2) and 46 (2) (f) GDPR).  

These guidelines provide guidance as to the application of Article 46 (2) (f) of the GDPR on transfers of 
personal data to third countries or to international organisations on the basis of certification. The doc-
ument is structured in four sections with an Annex. 

Part one of this document ("GENERAL") clarifies that the guidelines supplement the already existing 
general Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and addresses specific requirements from Chapter V of the 
GDPR when certification is used as a transfer tool. According to Article 44 of the GDPR, any transfer of 
personal data to third countries or international organisations, must meet the conditions of the other 
provisions of the GDPR in addition to complying with Chapter V of the GDPR. Therefore, as a first step, 
compliance with the general provisions of the GDPR must be ensured and, as a second step, the pro-
visions of Chapter V of the GDPR must be complied with. The actors who are involved and their core 
roles in this context are described, with a special focus on the role of the data importer who will be 
granted a certification and of the data exporter who will use it as a tool to frame its transfers (consid-
ering that the responsibility for data processing compliance remains with the data exporter). In this 
context the certification can also include measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compli-
ance with the EU level of protection of personal data. Part one of the guidelines also contains infor-
mation on the process for obtaining a certification to be used as tool for transfers. 

The second part of these guidelines (“IMPLEMENTING GUIDANCE ON THE ACCREDITATION REQUIRE-
MENTS”) recalls that the requirements for accreditation of a certification body are to be found in ISO 
17065 and by interpreting the Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under 
Article 43 of the GDPR and its Annex against the background of Chapter V. However, in the context of 
a transfer, these guidelines further explain some of the accreditation requirements applicable to the 
certification body.  

The third part of these guidelines ("SPECIFIC CERTIFICATION CRITERIA") provides for guidance on the 
certification criteria already listed in Guidelines 1/2018 and establishes additional specific criteria that 
should be included in a certification mechanism to be used as a tool for transfers to third countries. 
These criteria cover the assessment of the third country legislation, the general obligations of export-
ers and importers, rules on onward transfers, redress and enforcement, process and actions for situa-
tions in which national legislation and practices prevents compliance with commitments taken as part 
of certification and requests for data access by third country authorities.  

Part four of these guidelines (“BINDING AND ENFORCEABLE COMMITMENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED“) 
provides elements that should be addressed in the binding and enforceable commitments that con-
trollers or processors not subject to the GDPR should take for the purpose of providing appropriate 
safeguards to data transferred to third countries. These commitments, which may be set out in differ-
ent instruments including contracts, shall in particular include a warranty that the importer has no 
reason to believe that the laws and practices in the third country applicable to the processing at stake, 
including any requirements to disclose personal data or measures authorising access by public author-
ities, prevent it from fulfilling its commitments under the certification.  

Adopted 

3 

The ANNEX of these guidelines contains some examples of supplementary measures in line with those 
listed in Annex II Recommendations 01/2020 (Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supple-
ment transfer tools to ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal data) in the con-
text of the use of a certification as a tool for transfers. Examples are constructed with a view to raise 
attention to critical situations.  

 

 

 

Adopted 

4 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

2  
3  

 
Version history ............................................................................................................................. 2 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .................................................................................................................. 3 
1  GENERAL .............................................................................................................................. 6 
1.1 Purpose and scope ....................................................................................................................... 6 
1.2 General rules applicable to international transfers ...................................................................... 6 
1.3 Who are the actors involved and what is their role for certification as a tool for transfers? ....... 8 
1.4 What are the scope and the object of certification as a tool for transfers? ................................. 8 
1.5 What should be the role of the exporter in the use of certification as tool for transfers? ........... 9 
1.6 What is the process for certification as a tool for transfers? ...................................................... 10 
IMPLEMENTING GUIDANCE ON THE ACCREDITATION REQUIREMENTS ................................. 11 
SPECIFIC CERTIFICATION CRITERIA ....................................................................................... 12 
3.1 IMPLEMENTING GUIDANCE ON THE CERTIFICATION CRITERIA .................................................. 12 
3.2 ADDITIONAL SPECIFIC CERTIFICATION CRITERIA ........................................................................ 13 
1. Assessment of the third country legislation ............................................................................. 13 
2. General obligations of exporters and importers ....................................................................... 14 
3. Rules on onward transfers ........................................................................................................ 14 
4. Redress and Enforcement ........................................................................................................ 14 
5. Process and actions for situations in which national legislation prevents compliance with 
commitments taken as part of certification ................................................................................. 15 
6. Dealing with requests for data access by third country authorities ......................................... 15 
7. Additional safeguards concerning the exporter ....................................................................... 15 
4 
BINDING AND ENFORCEABLE COMMITMENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED .................................... 16 
ANNEX ....................................................................................................................................... 18 
A. EXAMPLES OF SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY THE IMPORTER IN CASE THE 
TRANSIT IS INCLUDED IN THE SCOPE OF CERTIFICATION .................................................................. 18 
B. EXAMPLES OF SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES IN CASE THE TRANSIT IS NOT COVERED BY THE 
CERTIFICATION AND THE EXPORTER HAS TO ENSURE THEM ............................................................ 19 

 
 
 

 

Adopted 

5 

The European Data Protection Board  
Having regard to Article 70 (1)(e) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU of the European Parliament and of 
the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of 
personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, (hereinafter 
“GDPR”),  

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 20181, 

Having regard to Article 12 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure,  

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES 
 

1  GENERAL 

1. 

2. 

3. 

1.1 Purpose and scope 
This document seeks to provide guidance as to the application of Article 46 (2) (f) of the GDPR on 
transfers of personal data to third countries or to international organisations on the basis of certifica-
tion. The EDPB has already published general guidance on certification2 and accreditation3 under the 
GDPR. These new guidelines therefore only reflect the specific aspects regarding certification as a tool 
for transfers. They specify the application of Articles 46 (2) (f) and 42 (2) of the GDPR by providing 
practical guidance in this respect and introducing new elements to the already published guidelines.  

The EDPB will evaluate the functioning of these guidelines in light of the experience gained with their 
application in practice and provide further guidance to clarify the application of the elements listed 
below including the role of certification agreement with regard to the binding and enforceable com-
mitments referred to in Art. 46 (2) (f) of the GDPR. 

1.2 General rules applicable to international transfers 
According to Article 44 of the GDPR, any transfer of personal data to third countries4 or international 
organisations must meet the conditions of the other provisions of the GDPR in addition to complying 
with Chapter V of the GDPR. Therefore, each transfer must comply inter alia with the data protection 
principles in Article 5 GDPR, be lawful in accordance with Article 6 GDPR and comply with Article 9 
GDPR in case of special categories of data. Hence, a two-step test must be applied. As a first step, 
compliance with the general provisions of the GDPR must be ensured and as a second step, the provi-
sions of Chapter V of the GDPR must be complied with. 

                                                             

1 References to “Member States” made throughout this document should be understood as references to “EEA 
Member States”. 
2 Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of 
the Regulation 2016/679. 
3 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation (2016/679). 
4 Guidelines 05/2021 on the Interplay between the application of Article 3 and the provisions on international 
transfers as per Chapter V of the GDPR, page 4. 

Adopted 

6 

Article 44 GDPR (General principle for transfers)

Two-step model.

Compliance with general provisions of GDPR (in particular Chapter II)

Compliance with the principles in 
Article 5 GDPR and if to be verified 
by a controller in particular 
lawfulness according to Article 6 
GDPR and compliance with Article 
9 GDPR (in case of special 
categories of data).

GDPR transfer toolbox (Chapter V)

Certification as a tool for transfer 
(appropriate safeguard).
Binding and enforceable 
commitments of the controller or 
processor in the third country to 
apply the appropriate safeguards, 
including as regards data subjects' 
rights.

 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

The GDPR specifies in its Article 46 that “in the absence of a decision pursuant to Article 45 (3), a 
controller or processor may transfer personal data to a third country or an international organisation 
only if the controller or processors has provided appropriate safeguards, and on condition that en-
forceable data subject rights and effective legal remedies for data subjects are available”. Pursuant to 
Article 46 (2) (f) of the GDPR, such appropriate safeguards may be provided for by an approved certi-
fication mechanism together with binding and enforceable commitments of the controller or processor 
in the third country to apply the appropriate safeguards, including as regards data subjects' rights. 

As a result, the data exporter might decide to rely on the certification obtained by a data importer as 
an element to demonstrate compliance with its obligations e.g. according to Article 24 (3) or Article 28 
(5) GDPR. The data importer might decide to apply for certification to demonstrate that appropriate 
safeguards are in place.  

Both, the data exporter and the data importer can fulfil different roles (for example as a controller or 
processor)5, depending on the processing within Chapter V, which lead to different responsibilities: 

Controller 

(data exporter)

Controller 

(data importer)

Controller 

(data exporter)

Processor 

(data importer)

Processor 

(data exporter)

Processor 

(data importer)

Processor 

(data exporter)

Controller 

(data importer)

 

Aside from the use of certification or any of the other transfer tools or mechanisms referred to in 
Articles 45 and 46, Article 49 of the GDPR stipulates that in a limited number of specific situations, 
international data transfers may take place when no other mechanism in Chapter V is complied with6. 
However, as explained in previous guidance issued by the EDPB, the derogations provided by Article 

                                                             

5 See below: IMPLEMENTING GUIDANCE ON THE CERTIFICATION CRITERIA. 
6 For further information on Article 49 and its interplay with Article 46 in general, please see Guidelines 2/2018 
on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679. 

Adopted 

7 

49 GDPR must be interpreted restrictively and mainly relate to processing activities that are occasional 
and non-repetitive7.  

1.3  Who are the actors involved and what is their role for certification as a tool for 

transfers? 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

The European Data Protection Board (EDPB) is empowered to approve EEA-wide certification criteria 
(European Data Protection Seal) and to provide opinions on Supervisory Authorities’ draft decisions on 
certification criteria and accreditation requirements of the certification bodies so as to ensure con-
sistency. It is also competent for collating all certification mechanisms and data protection seals and 
marks in a register and making them publicly available8. 

The Supervisory Authorities (SAs) approve the certification criteria when the certification mechanism 
is not a European Data Protection Seal9. They might also accredit the certification body, design the 
certification criteria and issue certification if established by the national law of their Member State10. 
The National Accreditation Body may accredit third party certification bodies by using ISO 17065 and 
the SAs additional accreditation requirements, which should be in line with section 2 of these guide-
lines. In some Member States, the accreditation can be offered as well by the competent SA as well as 
being carried out by a national accreditation body or by both. 

The Scheme owner is an organisation which has set up certification criteria and the methodology re-
quirements according to which conformity is to be assessed. The organisation carrying out the assess-
ments could be the same organisation that has developed and owns the scheme, but there could be 
arrangements where one organisation owns the scheme, and another (or more than one other) per-
forms the assessments as Certification body.  

12.  Depending on national law, alternatively to SAs, the Certification body accredited as said above, can 
issue the certifications11. It might design certification criteria and, thus, be scheme owners (see para 
11 above). It has to have an establishment in the EEA in particular in order to allow the effective exer-
cise of corrective powers enshrined in Article 58 (2) (f) GDPR. But the certification body might subcon-
tract activities to local experts or establishments outside the EEA which will perform audit activities on 
its behalf12. Nevertheless, a certification body shall not subcontract the decision regarding the granting 
or non-granting of a certification. 
The Data Importer is the entity (controller or processor) in the third country receiving data from a data 
exporter. 
The Data Exporter is the entity (controller or processor) transferring data from the EEA to a data im-
porter. The data exporter must ensure compliance with Chapter V.  

13. 

14. 

1.4 What are the scope and the object of certification as a tool for transfers? 

                                                             

7 Guidelines 2/2018 on derogations of Article 49 under Regulation 2016/679, page 5. 
8 Article 42(8) GDPR. 
9 Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of 
the Regulation 2016/679, pt. 2.2. 
10 Articles 42(5) and 43(1) GDPR.  
11 Article 42(5) GDPR.  
12 Certification bodies must assess their local experts in line with ISO 17065 and the additional requirements for 
accreditation established by the supervisory authority (Article 43 (1) (b) GDPR). 

Adopted 

8 

15.  A certification mechanism as a transfer tool under Article 42 (2) must aim at ensuring appropriate 
safeguards for the processing of personal data under the terms of point (f) of Article 46 (2). The certi-
fication shall demonstrate the existence of appropriate safeguards provided by controllers or proces-
sors outside the EEA or constituting an international organisation receiving data from EEA controllers 
or processors to counter the specific risks of transferring personal data.  

16. 

In general, the operation of transferring personal data from a Member State to a third country consti-
tutes, in itself, processing of personal data within the meaning of Article 4(2) of the GDPR, carried out 
in a Member State13 and therefore certifiable under art. 42 (1) GDPR. However, some situations, de-
pending on the context, might include the transit in the scope of the certification as a tool for transfers. 
Consequently, the object of the certification – which coincides with the Target of Evaluation (ToE) dur-
ing certification14 - should generally be the processing of the data received from the EEA by the data 
importer in the third country and the transit, if under the control of the importer. 

Transit (e.g. sea cable)

Processing in EEA

Certification under Art. 42 GDPR

Transit usually covered by 
certification under Article 42 

(1); however, it may be 

included, in specific cases, in 
the scope of the certification 
as a tool for transfers (Art. 42 

(2))

Processing in 3rd country

Certification under Chapter V 

GDPR

 

17. 

18. 

19. 

The object of certification can be a single processing operation or a set of operations. These may com-
prise governance processes in the sense of organisational measures hence as integral parts of a pro-
cessing operation15. 

The entity applying would, therefore, be the data importer in the third country in relation to its object 
of certification. 

1.5 What should be the role of the exporter in the use of certification as tool for trans-

fers? 

The transfer by the data exporter as such generally falls directly under the GDPR. This means that the 
exporter is required to comply with its obligations under the GDPR and in particular to ensure that 
data is transferred in a secure manner in accordance with Article 32 and Chapter V in order to ensure 
that the level of protection of natural persons guaranteed by that regulation is not undermined (Article 
44 GDPR)16. This can, of course, be certified under Article 42 (1).  

                                                             

13 Judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-311/18 - Data Protection Commissioner v 
Facebook Ireland Ltd and Maximillian Schrems, No 83. 
14 Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of 
the Regulation 2016/679, page 17. 
15 Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of 
the Regulation 2016/679, page 16 (e.g. complaint handling mechanism). 
16 In this respect, it is important to note that Article 44 of the GDPR clearly envisages that a transfer may not only 
be carried out by a controller but also by a processor. Therefore, there will  be a transfer situation where a 
processor sends data to another processor or even to a controller in a third country as instructed by its controller 
(Article 28(3)(a) GDPR). In these cases, the processor acts as a data exporter on behalf of the controller and has 
to ensure that the provisions of Chapter V are complied with for the transfer at stake according to the instructions 
of the controller, including that an appropriate transfer tool is used. Considering that the transfer is a processing 
activity carried out on behalf of the controller, the controller is also responsible and could be liable under Chapter 
V, and also has to ensure that the processor provides for sufficient guarantees under Article 28.   

Adopted 

9 

20. 

Furthermore, the data exporter who wants to use a certification as appropriate safeguard according 
to Article 46 (2) (f) GDPR is notably obliged to verify whether the certification it intends to rely on is 
effective in light of the characteristics of the intended processing. To that end, the data exporter must 
check the issued certification in order to verify if the certificate is valid and not expired, if it covers the 
specific transfer to be carried out and whether the transit of personal data is in the scope of certifica-
tion, as well as if onward transfers are involved and an adequate documentation is provided on them. 
Additionally, the exporter has to check that the certification body issuing the certification is accredited 
by a national accreditation body or a competent supervisory authority. Moreover, the data exporter 
should refer to using the certification as a tool for transfer in the data processing contract pursuant to 
Article 28 GDPR in case of transfers from controller to processor or a data-sharing contract with the 
data importer in case of transfers from controller to controller. 

21.  Considering that the exporter is responsible for all provisions in Chapter V being applied, it has also to 
assess whether the certification it intends to rely on as a tool for transfers is effective in the light of 
the law and practices in force in the third country that are relevant for the transfer at stake. For the 
purpose of this assessment and as an important element by which to demonstrate compliance with its 
responsibility, the data exporter may rely on the verification carried out by the certification body of 
the importer’s documented assessment of the third country’s laws and practises.  

22. 

In case the importer’s assessment has revealed that it and/or the data exporter may need to provide 
supplementary measures envisaged by the certification to ensure an essentially equivalent level of 
protection as provided in the EEA, the data exporter must verify the supplementary measures provided 
by the data importer holding a certification and if it is able to answer the technical and (if any) supple-
mentary measures asked for by the data importer. 

23. 

If those stipulations are not met, the data exporter will have to require from the importer to put in 
place adapted supplementary measures or establish them by itself.  

1.6 What is the process for certification as a tool for transfers? 

24.  Certification is voluntary, but when sought must be granted via a transparent process based on man-
datory rules. The GDPR places considerable trust in private certification mechanisms as a “regulated 
self-regulation”. Accordingly, those mechanisms must ensure that the certificates materially meet the 
requirements for appropriate safeguards as defined in Article 46 GDPR.   

25. 

Therefore, the certification must be based on the evaluation of certification criteria according to a 
binding audit methodology. Those criteria will be approved by national SAs or by the EDPB as described 
in Article 42 (5) GDPR. The criteria for certification shall include requirements for an assessment of the 
processing performed by the data importer, including onward transfers, and of the third country rele-
vant legal framework, to avoid that the rules and practices of the third country prevent the importer 
from complying with its obligations under the certification.  

26.  During the process of certification, the Target of Evaluation shall be checked under certification criteria 

by a certification body accredited by the national accreditation body or by the competent SA17.  

                                                             

17 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the General Data Protection 
Regulation (2016/679), p. 9. 

Adopted 

10 

27.  According to Article 43 (1) GDPR, certification bodies which have an appropriate level of expertise in 
relation to data protection shall, after informing the SA in order to allow it to exercise its powers pur-
suant to point (h) of Article 58 (2) GDPR where necessary, issue and renew certification. 

28.  According to Article 43 (5) GDPR, the certification bodies shall provide the competent SAs with the 
reasons for granting or withdrawing the requested certification. This does not mean that the certifica-
tion body needs the authorisation of the SA in order to issue certification. The certification body will 
be monitoring the compliance of its clients with the certification criteria. 

29. 

The SA has the corrective power to withdraw a certification or order to withdraw a certification issued 
pursuant to Articles 42 and 43 GDPR, or order the certification body not to issue certification if the 
requirements for the certification are no longer met.  

30.  A European Data Protection Seal for international data transfers may serve as a tool to cover transfers 

to third countries together with binding and enforceable commitments18. 

31.  Nevertheless, certifications to be used as a tool for transfers can also be issued according to national 
approved certification schemes in EEA States. As such, they are only valid for transfers to third coun-
tries from exporters in the EEA Member State where the certification scheme has been approved as 
there is no mutual recognition of different EEA state certifications. But SAs in different EEA states are 
free to approve the same certification mechanism for transfers19. 

2   IMPLEMENTING GUIDANCE ON THE ACCREDITATION REQUIRE-

MENTS  

32. 

33. 

The requirements for accreditation of a certification body with regard to certifications as a tool for 
transfers are to be found in ISO 17065 and by interpreting the Guidelines 4/201820 against the back-
ground of Chapter V, as explained below. 

In the opinion of the EDPB, the additional accreditation requirements drafted on the basis of the Guide-
lines 4/2018 and ISO 17065 adopted according to Article 64 (1) (c) GDPR already cover the specific 
requirements needed for the accreditation of a certification body with regard to certifications as tool 
for transfers. However, in a transfer scenario, some requirements need some refinements in term of 
explanatory notes and interpretation.  

34.  With regard to the resource requirements (see requirement 6 of the Guidelines 4/2018 - Annex 1) the 
certification body shall ensure that it has the necessary resources to be able to verify that, as required 
by the certification criteria, the importer has duly and in a correct way carried out the necessary as-
sessment of the legal situation and practices of the third country/ies where it is established or oper-
ates21. This assessment should be carried out with respect to the processing activities to be certified 
                                                             

18 See Article 42 para 5 GDPR and para 35 of EDPB Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification 
criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of the Regulation. 
19 If a SA  leads the adoption of the certification criteria X under its national initiative and, afterwards, taking 
account of the scheme criteria and applicable specific national regulations, other countries want to adopt the 
same certification criteria,  they may adopt the them without triggering an EDPB opinion under article 64 of the 
GDPR and rely on the opinion given to the first SA, according to Art 64 (3) GDPR (see, in this respect, Reference 
to Guidance – Addendum (Annex to Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in 
accordance with Articles 42 and 43 of the Regulation), para. 66.  
20 Guidelines 4/2018 on the accreditation of certification bodies under Article 43 of the GDPR and its Annex. 
21 See paragraph 12 above. 

Adopted 

11 

as part of the ToE with regard to the appropriate safeguards from Article 46 GDPR, and includes the 
supplementary measures identified and implemented by the importer, where necessary. This also in-
cludes e.g. a significant knowledge of relevant local laws and practices and adequate language skills in 
relation to the third country/ies. 

35.  With regard to the process requirements (see requirement 7 of the Guidelines 4/2018 Annex 1) the 
certification body shall ensure that the process of certification can be backed up by possible on-site 
audits, is carried out with regard to processing which will take place in the third country/ies, and that 
the assessment also covers the implementation in practice of existing laws and policies in the third 
country/ies.   

36.  With regard to the requirements regarding changes affecting certification (see requirement 7.10 of the 
Guidelines 4/2018 Annex 1) the certification body shall monitor changes in third country legislation 
and/or case law that may impact the processing falling within the scope of the ToE. 

3   SPECIFIC CERTIFICATION CRITERIA 

37. 

38. 

In the context of the consideration of the specific certification criteria, these guidelines are based on 
the Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying certification criteria in accordance with Articles 
42 and 43 of the Regulation (Version 3. 0), the corresponding Annex 2 on the review and assessment 
of certification criteria in accordance with Article 42 (5) and the Guidance on Certification criteria as-
sessment Addendum. 

In the opinion of the EDPB, the certification criteria drafted on the basis of the Guidelines 1/2018 An-
nex 2 and the Guidance on Certification criteria assessment – Addendum, already cover the majority 
of the certification criteria which need to be taken into consideration when drafting a certification 
scheme to be used as tool for transfers. However, there might be a need to further specify some of 
these existing criteria to tailor them to a specific transfer scenario (see par. 3.1). In addition, there 
might be a need to formulate additional criteria for the purpose of applying appropriate safeguards, 
including with regard to the rights of data subjects (see par. 3.2).  

3.1 IMPLEMENTING GUIDANCE ON THE CERTIFICATION CRITERIA 

39.  With regard to the scope of the certification mechanism and target of evaluation (TOE) (see Annex 2, 
Section 2.a) it should be clearly described in the relevant documentation including with regard to the 
transfer of personal data to a third country or whether it is intended to cover also their transit. 

40.  With regard to the scope of the certification mechanism and target of evaluation (TOE) (see Annex 2, 
Section 2.b) the relevant documentation should describe concretely for which type of entity (ex: con-
troller and/or processor) the certification mechanism is applicable. 

41.  With regard to the scope of the certification mechanism and target of evaluation (TOE) (see Annex 2, 
Section 2.f) the criteria should require that the ToE is defined concretely in order to avoid misunder-
standings. This should include at least: 

42. 

the processing operation(s), including in case onward transfers are envisaged 

a)  the purpose 
b)  the type of entity (ex: controller and/or processor)  

Adopted 

12 

c)  the type of data transferred taking into account whether special categories of personal data 

as defined in Article 9 GDPR are involved  

d)  the categories of data subjects 

e)  the countries where the data processing takes place  

43.  With regard to Transparency and the Data subjects’ rights (see Annex 2, Section 8), the certification 

criteria should: 

a)  Require that information on the processing activities should be provided to data subjects, in-
cluding, where relevant, on the transfer of personal data to a third country or an international 
organisation (see Articles 12, 13, 14 GDPR) 

b)  require  that    data  subjects    are  guaranteed  their  rights  to  access,  rectification,  erasure, 
restriction,  notification  regarding  rectification  or  erasure  or  restriction,  objection  to 
processing,  right  not  to  be  subject  to  decisions  based  solely  on  automated  processing, 
including profiling, essentially equivalent to those provided for by Articles 15 to 19, 21 and 22 
GDPR 

c)  require that an appropriate complaint handling procedure is established by the data importer 
holding a certification in order to ensure the effective implementation of the data subject 
rights  

d)  require  assessing  whether  and  to  what  extent  these  rights  are  enforceable  for  the  data 
subjects in the relevant third country and any additional appropriate measures that may need 
to be put in place to enforce them, e.g. requiring that the importer will accept to submit itself 
to  the  jurisdiction  of  and  cooperate  with  the  supervisory  authority  competent  for  the 
exporter(s)  in  any  procedures  aimed  at  ensuring  compliance  with  these  rights  and,  in 
particular,  that  it  agrees  to  respond  to  enquiries,  submit  to  audits  and  comply  with  the 
measures  adopted  by  aforementioned  supervisory  authority,  including  remedial  and 
compensatory measures. 

44.  With regard to technical and organisational measures guaranteeing protection (Annex 2, Section 10.q), 
the certification criteria should require the importer to inform the exporter and, if the importer acts 
as a controller, to notify the SA in the EEA competent for the data exporter(s) of data breaches and to 
communicate them to the data subjects where the breach is likely to result in a high risk to their rights 
and freedoms, in line with the requirements of Article 34 GDPR. 

45. 

3.2 ADDITIONAL SPECIFIC CERTIFICATION CRITERIA 
In view of the safeguards identified for other transfer instruments under Article 46 of the GDPR (such 
as binding corporate rules or codes of conduct) and in order to ensure a consistent level of protection, 
and taking into account the Schrems II ruling of the ECJ, the EDPB considers that certification mecha-
nism to be used as a tool for transfers to third countries, should include also the criteria listed below. 

1. Assessment of the third country legislation  

a)  Do the criteria require the importer to have assessed the rules and practices of the third 
country where it operates and whether they prevent the importer from complying with its 
commitments under the certification? 

b)  Do the criteria require the importer to document the assessment of the rules  and practices 
of  the  third  country  where  it  operates  and  keep  the  documentation  available  to  the 

Adopted 

13 

certification body and upon request to the SA in the EEA competent for the data exporter 
and to the data exporter?  

c)  Do the criteria require the importer to have identified and implemented the organisational 
and technical measures to provide the appropriate safeguards under Article 46 GDPR taking 
into account the “Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools 
to ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal data? 

d)  Do the criteria require the importer to document the organisational and technical measures 
effectively implemented to provide the appropriate safeguards under Article 46 GDPR and 
keep  the  documentation  available  to  the  certification  body  and  upon  request  to  the 
competent data protection authorities and to the data exporter?  

e)  Do the criteria require the importer to have identified and implemented the organisational 
and technical measures to ensure the security of the personal data transferred, taking into 
account the “Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to 
ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of personal data” if the transit is included 
in the scope of certification as a tool for transfers? 

f)  Do  the  criteria  require  a  warranty  to  the  certification  body  and  the  exporter  that  the 
importer has no reason to believe that the legislation and practices applicable to it may 
prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under the certification? 

2. General obligations of exporters and importers  

a)  Do the criteria require to lay down in contractual agreements (e.g. in an existing service 
contract) between exporters and importers a description of the specific transfer to which 
the certification applies and that third-party beneficiary rights are recognised to the con-
cerned data subjects? 

b)  Insofar  as  the  criteria  require  a  specific  content  for  these  contractual  agreements  or 
instruments and a template is provided, do the criteria require that they also be the subject 
of the evaluation? 

3. Rules on onward transfers  

a)  Do the criteria require that onward transfers are subject to specific safeguards in line with 
Chapter V GDPR requirements so as to ensure that the level of protection ensured in the 
EEA will not be undermined and do the criteria require that appropriate documentation is 
kept  available  to  the  certification  body  and  the  SA  in  the  EEA  competent  for  the  data 
exporter(s) and to the data exporter upon request? 

4. Redress and Enforcement 

a)  Do  the  criteria  provide  that  data  subjects  can  enforce  their  rights  as  third-party 
beneficiaries against the data importer before the  EEA court of the data subject’s habitual 
residence, or with an international organisation, including for compensation for damage 
suffered by the data subject in case of non-compliance by the importer with the relevant 
Certification scheme? 

b)  Do the criteria enable adequately assessing that an importer is liable in the EEA for the harm 
suffered  by  the  data  subject  in  case  of  non-compliance  with  the  relevant  Certification 
scheme?   

Adopted 

14 

c)  Do the criteria require that data subjects can lodge a complaint against the importer with a 
supervisory  authority  in  the  EEA,  in  particular  in  the  EEA  State  of  his  or  her  habitual 
residence, place of work or competent for the data exporter(s)?  

d)  Do the criteria require that the importer will cooperate with the supervisory authority in 
the EEA competent for the data exporter(s) and accept to be audited and to be inspected 
by it (them), take into account its (their) advice and abide by its (their) decisions? 

5. Process and actions for situations in which national legislation prevents compliance with 

commitments taken as part of certification  
a)  Do the criteria require a commitment that where the data importer in a third country or an 
international  organisation  has  reasons  to  believe  that  changes  in  the  legislation  and 
practices applicable to it may prevent it from fulfilling its obligations under the certification, 
it will promptly notify this to the certification body and to the data exporter, so that the 
latter can evaluate whether to immediately stop the transfers? 

b)  Do  the  criteria  require  a  description  of  the  steps  to  be  taken  (including  notifying  the 
exporter  in  the  EEA  and  taking  appropriate  additional  measures)  if  the  data  importer 
becomes aware of legislation or practises of a third country that prevents compliance with 
the  obligations  under  the  certification,  as  well  as  the  measures  to  be  taken  in  case  of 
requests for information from third country authorities (including the obligation to review 
and, when necessary, challenge the legality of the request and to minimise any information 
disclosed)? 

6. Dealing with requests for data access by third country authorities  

a)  Do the criteria require that the data importer will promptly inform the data exporter in case 
of  requests  for  access  by  third  country  authorities  and  take  appropriate  additional 
measures? 

b)  Do the criteria require that transfers as a result of disproportionate access requests by third 
country public authorities, in particular requests that require massive and indiscriminate 
transfers of personal data, should not take place? 

7. Additional safeguards concerning the exporter  

46.  Do the criteria require that, where so envisaged, the data importer ensures, also by way of binding 
requirements in this respect for the data exporter, that the supplementary measures it has identified 
are matched by corresponding supplementary measures on the part of the data exporter, taking into 
account the EDPB Recommendations 01/2020 and the use cases, in order to ensure an effective im-
plementation of the importer’s supplementary measures? 

Adopted 

15 

4  BINDING AND ENFORCEABLE COMMITMENTS TO BE IMPLE-

MENTED 

47. 

The GDPR requires in its Article 42 (2) that controllers and processors not subject to the GDPR adhering 
to a certification mechanism intended for transfers take, additionally, binding and enforceable com-
mitments, via contractual or other legally binding instruments22, to apply the appropriate safeguards 
provided by the certification mechanism including with regard to the rights of data subjects. 

48.  As specified by the GDPR, such commitments may be taken by using a contract, which appears as the 
most  straight  forward  solution.  Other  instruments  could  also  be  used,  provided  that  the  control-
ler/processors adhering to the certification mechanism are able to demonstrate the binding and en-
forceable nature of such other means. 

49. 

In any event, the binding and enforceable nature must be ensured under EU law and the commitments 
should also be binding and enforceable by data subjects as third-party beneficiaries.  

50.  A straight forward option would be to include the binding and enforceable commitments in the con-
tract between the data exporter and data importer. In practice, the parties could use an existing con-
tract (e.g. service agreement between the exporter and the data importer, the data processing agree-
ment contract in accordance with Article 28 GDPR between controllers and processors, or a data shar-
ing  agreement  between  separate  controllers)  in  which  the  binding  and  enforceable  commitments 
could be included. These commitments should be clearly distinguished from any other clauses. An-
other option could be to rely on a separate contract for instance by adding to the certification mecha-
nism intended for transfers a model contract that would need to be then signed by controllers/proces-
sors in the third country and all of its exporters.  

There should be flexibility to choose the most appropriate option depending on the specific situation.  

51. 
52.  When the certification mechanism is to be used for transfers and onward transfers by a processor to 
sub-processors, a reference to the certification mechanism and the instrument providing for binding 
and enforceable commitments should also be made in the processor agreement signed between the 
processor and its controller. 
Example for binding and enforceable commitments included in the contract between data exporter 
and data importer: 

Controller or Processor 
subject to the GDPR (Data 

exporter) 

TRANSFER

 
 

                                                             

Contract with binding and 
enforceable commitments 

Controller or Processor 

not subject to the 
GDPR  holding a 

certification intended 

for transfers (Data 

importer)

 

22 This legally binding instrument shall not be another Chapter V tool (such as, for example, the SCC), since these 
binding and enforceable commitments referred  to in Article 46(2)(f) have to be designed to ensure that the 
importer will abide by the certification criteria.  

Adopted 

16 

53. 

In general, the contract or other legally binding instrument must set out that the controller/processor 
holding a certification acting as an importer commits to comply with the rules specified in the certifi-
cation intended for transfers when processing the relevant data received from the EEA and warrants 
it has no reason to believe that the laws and practices in the third country applicable to the processing 
at stake, including any requirements to disclose personal data or measures authorising access by public 
authorities, prevent it from fulfilling its commitments under the certification and that it will inform the 
exporter of any relevant changes in the legislation or practice in this regard.  

54. 

The contract or other instrument shall also provide for mechanisms allowing to enforce such commit-
ments in case of non-compliance with the rules under the certification by the controller/processor 
acting as an importer, in particular with respect to the rights of data subjects whose data are trans-
ferred under the certification.  

55.  More particularly, the contract or other instrument should address:  

- 

- 

- 

- 

 

 

The existence of a right for data subjects whose data are transferred under the certification to 
enforce as a third-party beneficiaries the commitments taken by the certified data importer under 
the certification. 

The issue of liability in case of non-compliance with the rules under the certification by a data 
importer holding a certification outside of the EEA. Data subjects shall have the possibility in case 
of non-compliance with the rules under the certification by a data importer holding a certification 
outside  the  EEA  to  bring  a  claim,  by  invoking  their  third-party  beneficiary  right,  including  for 
compensation, against that entity before an EEA SA and EEA court of the data subject’s habitual 
residence. The importer holding a certification shall accept the decision of the data subject to do 
so. Data subjects shall also have the possibility, in case non-compliance by the importer could lead 
to liability of the data exporter, to bring a claim against the data exporter before the SA or the 
court of the data exporter’s establishment or of the data subject’s habitual residence23. The data 
importer and the data exporter should also accept that the data subject may be represented by a 
not-for-profit body, organisation or association under the conditions set out under Article 80 (1) 
of the GDPR. 

The existence of a right for the exporter to enforce against the data importer holding a certification 
the rules under the certification as a third-party beneficiary. 

The existence of an obligation of the data importer holding a certification to notify the exporter 
and the supervisory authority of the data exporter of any measures taken by the certification body 
in response to a detected non-compliance with the rules of the certification by the same data 
importer.  

 

                                                             

23 This liability should be without prejudice to the mechanisms to be implemented under the certification with 
the certification body that can also take action against the certified controllers/processors in accordance with 
the certification by imposing corrective measures. 
 

Adopted 

17 

ANNEX 

A. EXAMPLES OF SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY THE IMPORTER 
IN CASE THE TRANSIT IS INCLUDED IN THE SCOPE OF CERTIFICATION      

Use case 1: Data storage for backup and other purposes that do not require access to data in the 
clear 

Criteria relating to the encryption standards and the security of the decryption key, in particular criteria 
relating to the legal situation in the third country, must be established. If the importer can be forced 
to pass on decryption keys, the additional measure cannot be considered effective24.  
 
Use case 2: Transfer of pseudonymised Data 

In the case of pseudonymised data, criteria shall be established regarding the security of the additional 
information  necessary  to  attribute  the  transferred  data  to  an  identified  or  identifiable  person,  in 
particular: 

- Criteria regarding the legal situation in the third country. If the importer can be forced to access or 
use additional data in order to attribute the data to an identified or identifiable person, the measure 
cannot be considered effective25.  

- Criteria relating to the definition of additional information available to third country authorities that 
might be sufficient to attribute the data to an identified or identifiable person. 

Use case 3: Encryption of data to protect it from access by the public authorities of the third country 
of the importer when it transits between the exporter and its importer 

In  the  case  of  encrypted  data,  any  criteria  for  the  security  of  the  transit  shall  be  included.  If  the 
importer can be forced to pass on cryptographic keys for decryption or authentication or to modify a 
component used for transit in such a way that its security properties are undermined, the additional 
measure cannot be considered effective26. 

Use case 4: Protected recipient 

In the case of protected recipients, criteria for the limits of the privilege must be defined. The data 
processing must remain within the limits of the legal privilege. This also applies to processing by (sub) 
processors and onward transfers, whose recipients must also be privileged27. 

                                                             

24 Annex 2, Recommendations 01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to ensure compliance with 
the EU level of protection of personal data Version 2.0 Use Case 1: Data storage for backup and other purposes 
that  do  not  require  access  to  data 
in  the  clear,  p.  85 ;  https://edpb.europa.eu/system/files/2021-
06/edpb_recommendations_202001vo.2.0_supplementarymeasurestransferstools_en.pdf;  
25 See before, paragraph 86-89. 
26 See before, paragraph 90. 
27 See before, paragraph 91. 

Adopted 

18 

 

B. EXAMPLES OF SUPPLEMENTARY MEASURES IN CASE THE TRANSIT IS NOT COVERED 
BY THE CERTIFICATION AND THE EXPORTER HAS TO ENSURE THEM 

Use case 2: Transfer of pseudonymised Data 

Criteria  shall  be  provided  relating  to  the  additional  information  available  to  the  third  country 
authorities that might be sufficient to attribute the data to an identified or identifiable person. 

Use case 3: Encryption of data to protect it from access by the public authorities of the third country 
of the importer when it transits between the exporter and its importer 

Criteria shall be provided relating to the trustworthiness of the public key certification authority or 
infrastructure used, the security of the cryptographic keys used for authentication or decryption and 
the  reliability  of  key  management,  and  the  use  of  properly  maintained  software  without  known 
vulnerabilities.  

If the importer can be forced to disclose cryptographic keys suitable for decryption or authentication 
or to modify a component used for transit in order to undermine its security properties, the measure 
cannot be considered effective28. 

Use case 4: Protected recipient  

In the case of protected recipients, criteria for the limits of the privilege must be defined. The data 
processing  must  remain  within  the  limits  of  the  legal  privilege.  This  also  applies  to  processing  by 
(sub)processors and onward transfers, whose recipients must also be privileged29. 

                                                             

28 See before Recommendations, paragraph 90.  
29 See before Recommendations, paragraph 91. 

Adopted 

19 

