1/14

 File No.: EXP202105782

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On May 20, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against SERVICES
PROFESSIONALS LA PARADA S.L. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the
Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

File No.: EXP202105782

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: On 12/13/2021, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant), through which he makes a claim against SERVICIOS
PROFESSIONALS LA PARADA S.L. with NIF B04355913 (hereinafter, the part
claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system located in
*** ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible breach of the provisions of
the personal data protection regulations.

The reasons underlying the claim are as follows:

“That several cameras have been installed on public roads, giving the
exterior of the sidewalk where pedestrians pass daily and the adjoining existence of
a home which feels guarded by them... needless to say, neither
has proceeded to notify anyone of the adjoining neighbors and has not put the
corresponding informative poster.”

Attach 2 photographs and 1 video of the location of the cameras.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), a request for information was sent to the respondent
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month,
of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the
data protection regulations; the notification taking place on 12/30/2021, according to
appears in the Notice issued by the Post Office.

On 01/21/2022, this Agency received a written response indicating, in
synthesis, that "2 security cameras were installed at the ends of the
facade of the premises” and that “in the field of vision of both we visualize the doors,
sidewalk and part of the road. He also points out that there are no display monitors and
access to the images is done through an application installed on a PC in
the manager's office and also on your mobile phone.

Likewise, it states that “the installation of the cameras is marked with 2
posters that inform about it in the upper part of the façade”.

Attach images of the field of vision of the cameras and photographs of the poster
informative.

THIRD: In accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, on 03/13/2022 the
The claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 03/31/2022, the complaining party sent a letter to this Agency in
the one that indicates the following: “I want to communicate the installation of another video camera
looking at the street adjacent to the same place where I attach a photo of it.”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

 Competition

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

 The image is a personal data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

The images generated by a camera or video camera system are data from
personal nature, so its treatment is subject to the protection regulations
of data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image of the
natural persons) carried out through the reported video surveillance system is
in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
treatment of personal data.

III

 alleged infringement

Regarding the treatment for video surveillance purposes, article 22 of the LOPDGDD
establishes that natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
carry out the processing of images through camera systems or video cameras
in order to preserve the safety of people and property, as well as their
installations.

Article 12.1 of the RGPD indicates that whoever carries out data processing
personal, such as capturing images through a system of
video surveillance, you must provide the interested parties with the information indicated in the
articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD.

In order for the duty of information provided for in article 12 of the RGPD to be
complies in a concise and understandable manner for the affected party, the aforementioned article 22 of the
LOPDGDD foresees in relation to video surveillance a system of "information by
layers".

In this sense, the first layer must refer, at least, to the existence of the
treatment (video surveillance), the identity of the person in charge, the possibility of exercising the
rights provided for in articles 15 to 22 of the RGPD and where to obtain more
information on the processing of personal data.

Second layer information should be readily available in one place
accessible to the affected party, whether it is an information sheet at a reception, cashier, etc...,
placed in a visible public space or in a web address, and must refer to the
rest of the elements of article 13 of the RGPD.

It is not necessary to specify the precise location of the video surveillance equipment.

This duty of information shall be understood to be fulfilled by placing a
informative device in a sufficiently visible place, and at least, in the accesses
to the monitored areas, whether indoors or outdoors. In case the space
video-surveillance has several accesses, it must have said identification badge
video-monitored area in each of them.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

This information must be provided in advance -considering 39 of the RGPD-. The
The goal is to make the context of the surveillance clear.

The processing of personal data is subject to the rest of the principles of the
treatment contained in article 5 of the RGPD. We will highlight the principle of
minimization of data contained in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD that provides that the
personal data will be “adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to
for the purposes for which they are processed”.

This means that in a specific treatment only the data can be processed.
timely personal, that come to the case and that are strictly necessary
to fulfill the purpose for which they are processed. The treatment must be adjusted and
proportional to the purpose to which it is directed. The relevance in the treatment of
data must occur both at the time of data collection and in the
subsequent treatment of the same.

In accordance with the above, the processing of excessive data must be restricted or
proceed to their removal.

The application of the principle of data minimization in the field of video surveillance
entails that images cannot be captured from public roads, since the
treatment of images in public places, unless authorized
governmental, can only be carried out by the Security Forces and Bodies.

On some occasions, for the protection of private spaces, where
installed cameras on facades or inside, it may be necessary to ensure the
security purpose the recording of a portion of the public highway.

That is, cameras and video cameras installed for security purposes may not
obtain images of public roads unless it is essential for that purpose, or
it is impossible to avoid it due to their location. And in that case
extraordinary, the cameras will only be able to capture the minimum portion necessary to
preserve the safety of people and property, as well as its facilities.

In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be allowed.
object of the installation and, in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area.

It is not allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of
neighbors with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without cause
justified.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

Nor can images be captured or recorded in spaces owned by third parties.
without the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the people who
find.

Likewise, it is disproportionate to capture images in private spaces, such
such as changing rooms, lockers or worker rest areas.
 

 Video surveillance obligations

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a system
of video surveillance, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with the
following requirements:

IV

1.- Individuals or legal entities, public or private, can establish a system
video surveillance in order to preserve the safety of people and property,
as well as its facilities.

It must be assessed whether the intended purpose can be achieved in another less
intrusive to the rights and freedoms of citizens. personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be achieved by
other means, considering 39 of the RGPD.

2.- The images obtained cannot be used for a later purpose
incompatible with the one that motivated the installation of the video surveillance system.

3.- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 must be complied with
and 13 of the RGPD, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

4.- The treatment of images through the installation of camera systems or
video cameras must be lawful and comply with the principle of proportionality and that of
minimization of data, in the terms already indicated.

5.- The images may be kept for a maximum period of one month, except in
those cases in which they must be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, goods or facilities.

In this second case, they must be made available to the authority
competent within a maximum period of 72 hours from the knowledge of the
existence of the recording.

6.- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

7.- The person in charge must carry out a risk analysis or, where appropriate, an evaluation
of impact on data protection, to detect those derived from the implementation
of the video surveillance system, assess them and, where appropriate, adopt the measures of
appropriate security.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

8.- When a security breach occurs that affects the processing of
cameras for security purposes, whenever there is a risk to the rights and
freedoms of natural persons, you must notify the AEPD within a maximum period of
72 hours.

A security breach is understood as the accidental or accidental destruction, loss or alteration of
illicit of personal data transmitted, conserved or treated in another way, or the
unauthorized communication or access to said data.

9.- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection offers through its website
[https://www.aepd.es] access to:







the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the
RGPD and the LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “regulations”),
the Guide on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes,
the Guide for compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the
section “Guides and tools”).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

 Possible administrative infraction

v

The claim is based on the presumed illegality of the installation by the claimed party
of a video surveillance system composed of at least 3 cameras, located in the
outside of your establishment, located at ***ADDRESS.1, which could capture images
of public roads disproportionately.

In addition, the complaining party warns that the property reviewed does not have the
mandatory informative poster of the video-monitored area informing about the
presence of the cameras and on the identity of the data controller
data, so that interested persons can exercise the rights provided in
Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR.

As proof of these statements, he provided the evidence indicated in the
“Facts” section, first point, of this agreement.

In accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, transfer of
the claim to the claimed party, receiving this Agency written allegations
in which it provides the images captured by two of the cameras on 01/21/2022 and one
Photograph of the informative poster of the video-monitored area. They show that the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

portion of public road captured by the devices exceeds the essential minimum
to carry out the purpose of the system, since a large part of the road is displayed
and from the sidewalk. In addition, the information poster mentions the repealed Organic Law
15/1999, on Data Protection.

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the exposed facts violate what is established in the
article 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, for what they could suppose the commission of paths
offenses typified in article 83.5.a) and b) of the RGPD, which provides the following:

 “The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22; (…)”.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infraction indicated in the
previous paragraph is considered very serious in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD,
which states that:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)

h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the processing of their data
personal in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law.”

SAW

 sanction proposal

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with
article 83 of the RGPD -article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the person responsible or
in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations comply with the
provisions of the GDPR, where applicable, in a certain way and within a
specified term -article 58. 2 d)-.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

In the present case, taking into account the exposed facts and without prejudice to what
results from the instruction of the procedure, it is considered that the sanction that
should be imposed is an administrative fine. The fine imposed must
be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the
article 83.1 of the RGPD. In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed,
to observe the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, which indicates:

"two. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.

For its part, in relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in
its article 76, "Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"1. The penalties provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria
established in section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have included the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity

f) Affectation of the rights of minors

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party”.

With respect to infractions committed by violating the provisions of articles
5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, a fine of €400 (four hundred
euros) and another €400 (four hundred euros), respectively.

7th

 Possible measures

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
appropriate measures to adjust their actions to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to the
which each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period determined:

•
Prove that you have proceeded to update the informative device in
video-monitored areas (at least the existence of a
treatment, the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights
foreseen in said precepts), locating this device instead
sufficiently visible, both in open and closed spaces.
•
referred to in articles 13 and 14 of the RGPD.
•
Prove that you proceeded to remove the camera system or
video cameras of the current place or prove the regularization of the camera of
in accordance with current regulations.

Certify that you keep the information available to those affected

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

viii

 conclusion

HE REMEMBERS:

 

FIRST:
START SANCTION PROCEDURE TO SERVICES
PROFESIONALES LA PARADA S.L., with NIF B04355913, for the alleged infringement
of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) and b) of the RGPD.

SECOND: THAT for the purposes provided in article 64.2.b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
of October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations
(LPACAP, hereinafter), the sanctions that may correspond would be €400
(four hundred euros) and €400 (four hundred euros), respectively, without prejudice to what
resulting from the instruction.

Likewise, the imputed infractions, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition of
of measures in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the RGPD.

THIRD: APPOINT A.A.A. and, as secretary, to B.B.B.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

FOURTH: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

Data on actions carried out prior to the start of this
penalty procedure.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to PROFESSIONAL SERVICES LA
PARADA S.L., with NIF B04355913, granting a hearing period of ten days
able to formulate the allegations and present the evidence that it considers
convenient. In your brief of allegations you must provide your NIF and the number of
procedure at the top of this document

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
present initial agreement, which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the penalty would be established at €320 (three hundred and twenty euros) for the
infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, and €320 (three hundred and twenty euros) for the
violation of article 13 of the RGPD, €640 (six hundred and forty euros) in total,
resolving the procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at €320 (three hundred and twenty euros) for the infraction
of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, and €320 (three hundred twenty euros) for the infringement of the
article 13 of the RGPD, €640 (six hundred and forty euros) in total, and its payment will imply
the termination of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at €240 (two hundred and forty euros) for violation of article 5.1.c)
of the RGPD and another €240 (two hundred and forty euros) for article 13 of the RGPD,
€480 (four hundred and eighty euros) in total.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (640 euros or 480 euros), you must make it effective through your
Deposit in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.,
indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

The sanctioning procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from
from the date of the start-up agreement or, if applicable, the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In compliance with articles 14, 41 and 43 of the LPACAP, it is noted that, in what
successively, the notifications sent to you will be made exclusively in a
electronically by appearance at the electronic headquarters of the General Access Point of
the Administration or through the unique Authorized Electronic Address and that, if not
access them, their rejection will be recorded in the file, considering the
processing and following the procedure. You are informed that you can identify before this
Agency an email address to receive the notice of commissioning
disposition of the notifications and that the lack of practice of this notice will not prevent
that the notification be considered fully valid.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

948-110422

>>

SECOND: On June 21, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 480 euros making use of the two planned reductions
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure EXP202105782, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to LA PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
PARADA S.L.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-240122

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

