 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Opinion  12/2020  on  the  draft  decision  of  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  of  Finland  regarding  the  approval  of 
the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  a  code  of  conduct 
monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR 

 

 

Adopted on 25 May 2020 

 

Adopted 

1 

Table of contents  

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS ................................................................................................................ 4 

ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................... 4 

 

 

General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4 

Analysis of the FI accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies ...... 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL REMARKS .......................................................................................................... 5 

INDEPENDENCE ................................................................................................................ 6 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST .................................................................................................... 7 

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES ............................................................... 8 

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING........................................................................... 9 

LEGAL STATUS .................................................................................................................. 9 

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................................................................ 9 

FINAL REMARKS ............................................................................................................................. 10 

 

Adopted 

2 

The European Data Protection Board 
 
Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU 
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons 
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing 
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”), 
 
Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended 
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1 
 
Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,  
 
Whereas: 
 
(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the 
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve 
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant 
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard 
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply 
during  the  accreditation  of  a  code  monitoring  body  by  the  competent  supervisory  authority.  Even 
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does 
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the 
competent  SAs  to  draft  their  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  based  on  article 
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under 
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the 
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section  12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written 
guidance  explaining  the  accreditation  requirements;  and,  finally,  requesting  the  competent  SAs  to 
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach. 

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements 
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency 
mechanism  in  order  to  allow  the  setting  of  suitable  requirements  ensuring  that  monitoring  bodies 
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent 
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result, 
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR. 

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body 
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable 
of  effectively  monitoring  the  code.  The  GDPR  does  not  define  the  term  “accreditation”.  However, 
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body. 
There  are  a  number  of  requirements,  which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent 
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and 

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”. 
 

 

Adopted 

3 

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2) 
GDPR to obtain accreditation. 

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency 
mechanism,  the  development  of  the  accreditation  requirements  foreseen  in  the  Guidelines  should 
take  into  consideration  the  code’s  sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have 
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their 
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that 
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of 
conduct and their monitoring bodies. 

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of 
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the 
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be 
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each 
code.  

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article 
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and 
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair, 
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject 
matter.  

 
HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION: 

  SUMMARY OF THE FACTS 

1. 

The Finnish Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “FI SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the 
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion 
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness 
of the file was taken on 17 February 2020.  

 

2. 

In compliance with article 10 (2) of the Board Rules of Procedure, due to the complexity of the matter 
at hand, the Chair decided to extend the initial adoption period of eight weeks by a further six weeks.  

  ASSESSMENT 

  General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted  draft  accreditation 

requirements 

3. 

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2) 
GDPR criteria and  should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation 
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency 
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.  

4. 

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes 
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements 

Adopted 

4 

foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly 
to ensure consistency.  

5. 

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring 
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up 
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of 
the  specific  features  of  the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and 
medium  sized  enterprises.”  (article  40  (1)  GDPR).    Therefore,  the  Board  recognises  that  the 
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing 
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk. 

6. 

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging 
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.  

7.  When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the 

FI SA to take further action.  

8. 

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the FI SA, which are outside the scope of article 
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation.  The Board nevertheless notes that national 
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required. 

 

  Analysis of the FI accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring 

bodies 

9. 

Taking into account that: 

a.  Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to 

address in order to be accredited; 

b.  Article  41  (4)  GDPR  requires  that  all  codes  (excluding  those  covering  public  authorities  per 

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and 

c.  Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and 
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation 
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct. 

 
the Board is of the opinion that: 
 

  GENERAL REMARKS 

10. 

 
The Board observes that, according to the general notes of the draft accreditation requirements, the 
FI  SA  will  review  the  accreditation  of  the  monitoring  body  “periodically”  according  to  risk-based 
approach to ensure that the body still meets the requirements for accreditation. The Board welcomes 
the provision concerning the periodic re-assessment of the accreditation requirements by the FI SA in 
order to ensure compliance with the GDPR. However, for the sake  of clarity and transparency, the 
Board encourages the FI SA to provide information on how periodic review will work in practice.   

11.  With regards to the expertise requirements, section 3.1 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements 
states that the monitoring body shall be compliant with data protection legislation in its own actions. 
Indeed, it is unclear how the data protection legislation compliance will be checked by the FI SA, for 

Adopted 

5 

example, whether a self-declaration of the monitoring body in this regard would be enough or a more 
comprehensive assessment will be carried out by the SA. Therefore, the Board recommends that the 
FI  SA  redraft  this  requirement  in  terms  of  accountability,  clarifying  that  the  monitoring  body  shall 
demonstrate compliance with data protection legislation.  

12. 

The  Board  encourages  the  FI  SA  to  include  either  in the  draft  accreditation  requirements  or  in  the 
complementary guidance to the requirements, some examples of the information or documents that 
applicants have to submit when applying for accreditation.   

 

INDEPENDENCE 

13. 

 
The  Board  notes  that,  according  to  the  general  notes  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the 
requirements shall apply to a monitoring body regardless of whether it is an internal or an external 
body, unless stated otherwise. The Board is of the opinion that internal monitoring bodies cannot be 
set up within a code member, but only within a code owner. Therefore, the Board recommends that  
this is clarified and reflected either in the text of the draft accreditation requirements or as an example.  

14.  With regard to the first paragraph of the explanatory note under the section  1 of the FI SA’s draft 
accreditation  requirements  (“Independence”),  the  Board  acknowledges  the  impartiality  of  the 
monitoring body from the code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies. 
However, the Board is of the opinion that these requirements should be further specified, particularly 
with regard to any legal and economic links that may exist between the monitoring body and the code 
owner or code members. For this reason, the Board encourages the FI SA to amend this paragraph 
accordingly. 

15.  With regard to the second paragraph of the explanatory note under the  “Independence” section of 
the  FI  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board  notes  the  structural  and  procedural 
requirements to ensure independence. The Board recommends that the FI SA redraft the requirements 
in order to emphasize the fact that it is the monitoring body requesting accreditation that should prove 
its independence.  

16. 

Furthermore, the Board notes that the monitoring body shall have the financial stability and resources 
for the operation of its activities and obtain financial support for its monitoring role in a way that does 
not compromise its independence (section 1.1. and 1.3 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements). 
However, the Board considers that further explanation is needed as to how long-term financial stability 
of  the  monitoring  body  is  ensured.  In  particular,  the  Board  recommends  that  the  FI  SA  redraft  the 
requirements  in  order  to  explain  how  financial  independence  is  guaranteed  in  case  one  or  more 
funding sources are no longer available. Furthermore, the Board considers that section 1.4 of the FI 
SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements  should  also  include  a  reference  to  the  need  of  ensuring 
clarifications as to how financial independency is ensured with regard to the risks associated with the 
monitoring  body’s  own  activities,  for  example  in  case  of  damages  that  need to  be  paid  due  to  the 
monitoring body’s liability.  The Board therefore recommends that the FI SA include such reference in 
the draft accreditation requirements. Finally, the Board considers that section 1.4 of the FI SA’s draft 
accreditation  requirements  would  benefit  from  the  inclusion  of  some  examples  with  regard  to  the 
financial independence of the monitoring body, in order to highlight how the monitoring body can 
demonstrate  that  the  means  by  which  it  obtains  financial  support  would  not  adversely  affect  its 
independence. For instance, the monitoring body would not be considered financially independent if 
the  rules  governing  its  financial  support  allow  a  code  member,  who  is  under  investigation  by  the 

Adopted 

6 

monitoring body, to stop its financial contributions to it, in order to avoid a potential sanction from 
the monitoring body. The Board encourages the FI SA to provide examples of how the monitoring body 
can provide such evidence. 

17.  With regard to the appointment of members/personnel of the monitoring body (section 1.5 of the FI 
SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements),  the  Board  recommends  that  the  FI  SA  clarify  how  the 
independence of the monitoring body could be demonstrated, aligning the wording of the requirement 
to this of the Guidelines (see paragraphs 63 to 67), for clarification purposes.  

18. 

Section 1.12 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements refers to the organisational structure of 
the  internal  monitoring  body  and  ensures  its  impartiality,  by  requesting  that  it  has  separate 
members/personnel  and  management.  The  Board  acknowledges  that  this  wording  is  based  on  the 
Guidelines. Nonetheless, the Board is of the opinion that a strict obligation of using personnel outside 
the internal monitoring body could  be difficult to achieve in certain situations.  For this  reason, the 
Board encourages the FI SA to soften the requirement, in order to allow those exceptional situations 
in which it would not be possible for an internal monitoring body to have separate members/personnel 
and management from the larger entity it belongs to, as long as there are appropriate safeguards in 
place to sufficiently mitigate a risk of independence or a conflict of interest (paragraph 66, page 22 of 
the Guidelines).   

19. Section 1.13 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements refers to the use of sub-contractors by the 
monitoring body. The Board is of the opinion that the sub-contractors should be able to ensure the 
same degree of safeguards provided by the monitoring body in performing their activities, including 
the same level of competence and expertise. At the same time, the monitoring body  should be the 
ultimate responsible for all the decisions taken related to its monitoring function. Therefore, the Board 
encourages  the  FI  SA  to  specify  that,  notwithstanding  the  sub-contractor’s  responsibility  and 
obligations, the monitoring body is always the ultimate responsible for the decision-making and for 
compliance.  In addition, the Board is of the opinion that, even when  subcontractors are used, the 
monitoring body shall ensure effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity. 
The  Board  recommends  the  FI  SA  to  explicitly  add  this  obligation  in  the  draft  accreditation 
requirements.  

20. 

21. 

The Board observes that, according to section 1.15 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements, 
when using sub-contractors for processes relating  to monitoring actions, the monitoring body shall 
deliver written contracts or agreements to outline responsibilities etc., as well as documentation of 
the procedure for subcontracting. The Board encourages the FI SA to redraft the text in order to include 
requirements  relating  to  the  termination  of  those  contracts,  in  particular  so  as  to  ensure  that  the 
subcontractors fulfil their data protection obligations. Additionally the Board encourages the FI SA to 
add requirements relating to the risk management of the appointment of the external body. 

  CONFLICT OF INTEREST 

 
The Board takes note of the requirements included in the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements, in 
order for the monitoring body to demonstrate that the exercise of its tasks and duties does not result 
in a conflict of interest. However, the explanatory note under section 2 of the draft requirements does 
not provide enough clarity as to which situations may result in conflict of interest. The Board is of the 
opinion that, for practical reasons, examples of cases where conflict of interest could arise might be 
helpful. An example of a conflict of interest situation would be the case where personnel conducting 

Adopted 

7 

audits or making decisions on behalf of a monitoring body had previously worked in the recent years 
for the code owner, of for any of the organisations adhering to the code in the recent years. Therefore, 
the Board encourages the FI SA to add some examples, similar to the one provided in this paragraph. 
Furthermore, the Board encourages the FI SA to redraft the requirement under this section, so that it 
is clarified that conflicts of interest might also depend on the specificities of the sector(s) to which the 
CoC applies.  

22. 

23. 

The Board acknowledges that the explanatory note under section 2 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements refers to the identification of situations likely to create conflict of interest and the fact 
that measures will be taken in order to avoid such conflict. However, the Board is of the opinion that, 
with regard to  internal monitoring bodies, the requirements relating to the burden of  proof of the 
absence of conflict of interest should be stricter and recommends that the requirements be redrafted 
accordingly.  

Section 2.1 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements states that the monitoring body shall not 
provide any services to code members that would adversely affect its impartiality. The Board welcomes 
this  requirement,  however  it  considers  that  risks  to  impartiality  may  arise  from  a  wide  range  of 
activities carried out by the monitoring body also vis-à-vis code owners (especially if the monitoring 
body is internal) or other relevant bodies of the sector concerned. Therefore, the Board encourages 
the FI SA to supplement the current requirement accordingly.   

  ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES 

 

24.  With  regard  to  established  procedures  and  structures,  the  Board  observes  that  the  requirements 
under section 4 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements are presented in a general manner. The 
Board is of the opinion that the procedures to monitor compliance with codes of conduct have to be 
specific enough to ensure a consistent application of the obligations of code monitoring bodies.  

25. 

In particular, such procedures need to address the complete monitoring process, from the preparation 
of the evaluation to the conclusion  of the audit and additional controls to ensure that appropriate 
actions  are  taken  to  remedy  infringements  and  to  prevent  repeated  offences.  In  addition,  the 
monitoring body should provide evidence of upfront, ad hoc and regular procedures to monitor the 
compliance of members within a clear timeframe, and check the eligibility of members prior to joining 
the code.2 Therefore, the Board recommends that the FI SA develop further these requirements and 
add examples of the above procedures (such as, procedures providing for audit plans to be carried out 
over a definite period and on the basis of predetermined criteria, a specific control methodology and 
the  documentation  and  assessment  of  the  findings  as  well  as  the  full  cooperation  by  the  code 
members). 

26. 

Section  4.4  of  FI  SA’s  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  makes  reference  to  descriptions  of 
corrective measures in case of infringement that need to be delivered to the FI SA. The Board is of the 
opinion that those corrective measures must be determined in the code of conduct, as per article 40(4) 
GDPR. Therefore, the Board recommends the FI SA to make reference to the list of measures set out 

2 The EDPB provided some examples of such procedures in section 2.2.4 of the Opinion 9/2019 on the Austrian 
SA draft accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR. 

 

8 

Adopted 

in the code of conduct in cases of infringements of the code by a controller or processor adhering to 
it. 

  TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING 

 

27.  Regarding section 5.1 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board acknowledges that the 
monitoring  body  should  establish  effective  procedures  and  structures  to  handle  complaints  in  an 
impartial and transparent manner. In this regard, the Board notes that the FI SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements include a description of the procedure for complaints handling. However, the Board is 
of  the  opinion  that  further  clarification  is  needed  with  regard  to  the  “estimated  timeframe”  for 
answering complaints.  In this regard, the procedure shall envisage that the monitoring body has to 
inform the complainant with progress reports or the outcome of the complaint, within a reasonable 
time  frame.  This  period  could  be  extended  when  necessary,  taking  into  account  the  size  of  the 
organisation  under  investigation,  as  well  as  the  size  of  the  investigation.  Therefore,  the  Board 
recommends that the requirement is redrafted accordingly.  

28.  Regarding  section  5.4  of  the  FI  SA’s  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Boards  notes  that  the 
monitoring body’s decisions, or general information thereof, shall be made publicly available in line 
with  its  complaints  handling  procedure.  Without  prejudice  to  national  legislation,  the  Board 
encourages the FI SA to amend this requirement so that decisions are published when they relate to 
repeated and/or serious violations, such as the ones that could lead to the suspension or exclusion of 
the controller or processor concerned from the code, otherwise publication of summaries of decisions 
or  statistical  data  should  be  considered  adequate.  However,  data  subjects  should,  in  any  case,  be 
informed  about  the  status  and  outcome  of  their  individual  complaints,  so  that  the  transparency 
requirements of this procedure are respected.  

  LEGAL STATUS 

With regard to the legal status of the monitoring body, section  8.2 of the FI SA’s draft accreditation 
requirements states that the monitoring body shall have adequate resources for specific duties and 
responsibilities  over  a  suitable  period  of  time.  The  Board  considers  that  the  existence  of  sufficient 
financial and other  resources should be accompanied with the necessary procedures to ensure the 
functioning  of  the  monitoring  mechanism  over  time.  Thereby,  the  Board  encourages  the  FI  SA  to 
redraft the requirement accordingly. 

  CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS 

29. 

The draft accreditation requirements of the Finish Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent 
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made: 

30.  Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the FI SA: 

     1.  redraft  section  3.1  in  terms  of  accountability,  clarifying  that  the  monitoring  body  shall 
demonstrate compliance with data protection legislation. 

31.  Regarding independence the Board recommends that the FI SA: 

1. clarify, either in the text of the requirements or as an example, that internal monitoring bodies 

cannot be set up within a code member, but only within a code owner. 

Adopted 

9 

2.  redraft  the  second  paragraph  of  the  explanatory  note,  so  that  is  emphasised  that  it  is  the 

monitoring body requesting accreditation the one that should prove its independence. 

3. redraft sections 1.1. and 1.6 to explain how financial independence is guaranteed when one or 

more funding sources are no longer available. 

4. include in section 1.4 clarifications as to how financial independence is ensured with regard to 
the risks associated with the monitoring body’s own activities, for example in case of damages that 
need be paid due to the monitoring body’s liability.  

5. clarify how the independence of the monitoring body could be demonstrated by aligning the 
wording of the requirement to this of the Guidelines, with regard to the appointment of members/staff 
of the monitoring body in section 1.5. 

6. add in section 1.13 that, even when subcontractors are used, the monitoring body shall ensure 

effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity. 

32.  Regarding conflict of interest  the Board recommends that the FI SA: 

1.  redraft  the  requirements  under  the  explanatory  note  in  section  2  relating  to  the  internal 
monitoring bodies in a stricter way, in order to include the burden of proof of the absence of conflict 
of interest. 

33.  Regarding established procedures and structures  the Board recommends that the FI SA: 

1. further develop under section 4 the procedures to monitor compliance with codes of conduct 

and includes examples of such procedures.  

2. refer in section 4.4 to the list of corrective measures set out in the code of conduct in cases of 

infringements of the code by a controller or processor adhering to it. 

34.  Regarding transparent complaint handling  the Board recommends that the FI SA: 

1. redraft section 5.1 to indicate that the procedure for answering complaints shall envisage the 
obligation for the monitoring body to inform the complainant with progress reports or the outcome of 
the  complaint  within  a  reasonable  time  frame.  Such  timeframe  can  be  extended  when  necessary, 
taking  into  account  the  size  of  the  organisation  under  investigation,  as  well  as  the  size  of  the 
investigation. 

  FINAL REMARKS 

35. 

This  opinion is  addressed to the  Finnish supervisory authority and  will be made public pursuant to 
Article 64 (5) (b) GDPR. 

36.  According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the FI SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means 
within  two  weeks  after  receiving  the  opinion,  whether  it  will  amend  or  maintain  its  draft  decision. 
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to 
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to 
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.  

Adopted 

10 

37. 

The FI SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions, 
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR. 

 

For the European Data Protection Board 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

Adopted 

11 

