
On the occasion of the 5th anniversary of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a consultation on personal data protection was held on May 5, 2023, organized by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the University of the North, "5 years of application of the GDPR: problems, solutions, punishments and examples of good practice".
About a hundred managers/executors of processing and data protection officers at the HGK premises had the opportunity to learn about the latest trends and examples of good practice in the field of personal data protection, to share with the Agency's experts the problems encountered in the application of the General Regulation on Data Protection, which is directly applied in its entirety in the European Union from May 25, 2018, and with the support of experts find solutions that will raise the level of compliance in their organizations to a higher level.
"It is high time that all managers/executors of processing understand that the deadline for adaptation has passed and that after five years from the start of the full application of the General Regulation on Data Protection, lack of information and ignorance cannot be a justification and excuse for violating the fundamental rights of Croatian citizens. Therefore, precisely by organizing such trainings, we help managers/executors of processing in solving all the doubts they encounter when harmonizing with the General Data Protection Regulation. ", said the director of the Agency Zdravko Vukić.
"Investing in the protection of personal data is an investment that, especially for the private sector, but also for all other organizations, guarantees survival on the market. Protecting information assets and preserving capital is a big and responsible task for all of us", said Petar Mišević, adviser to the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Vice-Chancellor of the University of the North.
Otherwise, as part of its advisory role, the Agency continuously organizes various educational activities intended for all target groups, especially managers/executors of processing and data protection officers. However, the educational and monitoring activities carried out show that the level of compliance with the legislative framework for data protection in the Republic of Croatia is still not at a satisfactory level. For this reason, in this year and the previous year, the Agency intensified its monitoring activities, which resulted in the largest number of administrative fines imposed for violations of legal regulations on the protection of personal data - this year alone, 13 administrative fines were imposed in the total amount of 2, 3 million euros.
And precisely the penalties for violators of the GDPR and the Act on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation was one of the topics of the consultation. Also, the Agency's officials talked about harmonizing business processes with GDPR, that is, what organizations make the most mistakes in; technical and organizational measures for data protection - examples of good practice; how to prepare for the supervisory and investigative activities of the Agency and about the advisory activities of the Personal Data Protection Agency - the ARC 2 project and the coordinated action of the European Data Protection Board intended for data protection officers.









Zdravko Vukić, director





















Petar Mišević, adviser to the president of HGK and vice-chancellor of the University of the North.





















Igor Vulje, deputy director





















audience







ARC 2, guidance - 10 steps to comply with the GDPR







audience


