THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Koenigstrasse 10a
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

 May 06, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 Training center data protection and freedom of information

Baden-Württemberg BIDIB – A successful model

 

The training center is not yet a year old, but it is already a year

Success model: In the first half of 2021 we already have over

1000 interested people a total of 15 open events

attended or registered to participate.

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: “We lead with the training center

consistently continue our advisory and educational approach.

We inform, advise and sensitize for the modern

civil rights privacy and freedom of information, and

are looking for this with all those involved and interested

Exchange. I am very pleased that with our

Education center as a forum for data protection and

Freedom of information has received so much support in such a short time

receive."

 

The offer is varied and takes up current topics. A

The focus of previous events has been

 

- 2 -

Club area: So far in 2021 there have been four events for

Associations for the introduction of the LfDI tool "DS-GVO.clever".

around 200 participants. With that of the state representative

developed tool DS-GVO.clever can smaller clubs

quick and easy data protection notices for your own

Create home page. In addition, on June 16, 2021, the

Event "Data protection in the association" takes place - due to the

Another event is already in great demand

Planning.

 

For small and medium-sized businesses, this includes

Events on offer this year so far include:

“Data Protection Impact Assessment”, “Data Protection Law

Principles of joint responsibility according to Art. 26

DS-GVO” or “What to do in the event of data breaches?”. big

There is interest in dealing with data breaches. Before

During the summer holidays 2021 there will be another event.

 

For interested citizens there were, among other things, the

Opportunity to attend the events “WhatsApp alternatives:

A Journey through the Messenger Jungle” and “What

does freedom mean in a digital society?”

to participate. Targeted for municipal and

State administration there was an event on “Private

Video surveillance in public areas - especially in the

neighborhood context and in restaurants”. In the past

year the events “What now in things

international traffic? – The meaning of the Schrems

II judgment for the municipal sector” and “Introduction to

employee data protection”.

 

LfDI Stefan Brink: "As a supervisory authority, we don't just want

intervene to regulate if those responsible do not

 

- 3 -

act in accordance with data protection regulations. We want that responsible

Bodies such as municipalities, companies or associations at an early stage

consider a data protection-compliant solution and

Citizens in their civil right to informational

self-determination be strengthened. That's why she takes

Advice and support play such an important role for us.

And the new BIDIB training center offers an ideal solution for this

Platform".

 

At the beginning of July, the training center celebrates its one-year anniversary

Exist. Due to the pandemic, it has the most

Events offered online. Im now for summer

2021 planned relocation of the authority of the

The new education center will also be state representatives

Rooms and modern seminar technology are preserved.

 

All events offered so far have been very good

in demand, mostly fully booked. In case of high demand

If possible, additional dates will be offered. After this

The educational center will also move to the new premises

expand its offering. LfDI Stefan Brink: "We will,

as soon as the Corona situation allows, expand the offer

and again face-to-face and hybrid events

to organize. In addition, we will be regular guests for

Roundtables and discussions invite you to engage with them

on current topics relating to data protection and

freedom of information to speak and argue.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

- 4 -

Further information

The data protection education center founded in July 2020

and Freedom of Information Baden-Württemberg – BIDIB for short – is

a central point of contact for citizens, associations,

Associations, companies, authorities and civil society

Groups in the areas of data protection and

Freedom of Information. This should even better on the

numerous questions, complaints and requests for advice

be received by the LfDI.

 

The founding was made possible by the state parliament of Baden-

Württemberg, the financial resources and positions for this

has provided.

 

The BIDIB also offers for the public events

View of content and target audience not public

advertised events, such as

Events only for police authorities. Also come

Cooperation with other organizers.

 

An overview of the current and planned open

Events can be found on the website

Education center on the homepage of the

state representative.

 

 



Already held open and planned events from October 2020 to June 2021:
 
07.10.2020
 
11/20/2020 What now in terms of international data traffic? - The meaning of

Scoring - target group: banks

Schrems II judgment for the municipal sector - target group: local government

 
11/25/2020

 
12/10/2020

 
01/28/2021
 
02/12/2021

Introduction to employee data protection - target group: HR managers and
legal employees in the public sector or in the private sector

Order agreement and joint responsibility - contract design
made easy - Target group: Small and medium-sized companies

Data protection impact assessment - target group: small and medium-sized companies

Data protection-compliant use of social networks - target group: municipal and
state administration

 
18.02./04.03. How do I use DS-GVO.clever, the LfDI tool for creating

Data protection information for clubs?” - Target group: Clubs, especially the
People who are concerned with data protection and the maintenance of the association's websites

14./15.04.2021, but also all other interested people involved in clubs
 
February 23, 2021 What does freedom mean in a digital society? - Target group: Anyone interested
 
04/16/2021

Data protection law bases of joint responsibility according to Art. 26
DS-GVO - Target group: Small and medium-sized companies

 
April 23, 2021 What to do in the event of a data breach? - Target group: Small and medium-sized companies and

public bodies; due to the high number of registrations, another event will be held
planned

 
04/29/2021

Private video surveillance in public areas - especially in the
neighborhood context and in restaurants - target group: police officers,
Public order office employees, trade office employees

 
04/29/2021 WhatsApp alternatives: A journey through the messenger jungle - target group:

All interested

 
05/11/2021 What are the legal consequences of insufficient technical and

have organizational measures? - Target group: Small and medium-sized companies
Company,

 
05/19/2021

 
05/20/2021

 
06/16/2021

 

Data protection at collection agencies - target group: employees at banks,
Debt counseling, consumer centers and collection agencies, but also
Lawyers and business people, the registration period is still running

Deepening employee data protection - Target group: Personnel managers and
Employees in human resources of small and medium-sized companies, registration deadline
still running

Data protection in the club - Target group: In particular, board members of clubs, registration deadline
still running, second event planned due to high number of registrations

 

