1/5

 File No.: EXP202208746

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: As a consequence of a claim filed with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency, appreciating indications of a possible non-compliance
of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of Protection
of Data, hereinafter GDPR), proceedings were initiated with file number
EXP202104920. In accordance with the provisions of article 65 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (LOPDGDD hereinafter), the claim was transferred to the
person in charge or to the Data Protection Delegate that may have been designated.
The claim was admitted for processing on January 17, 2022.

SECOND: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of the aforementioned GDPR, and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the aforementioned LOPDGDD.

Within the framework of the investigation actions, they were sent to ADENET SYSTEMS,
S.L., with NIF B47387253 (hereinafter, the claimed party) two requirements of
information so that within a period of ten working days, the
information and documentation indicated in them. The first of them was
registered departure on February 11, 2022 while the second is
registered on March 29, 2022.

THIRD: The information requirements, which were carried out in accordance with the
norms established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP),
were collected by the person in charge with dates February 21, 2022 and April 8,
2022, as stated in the Notific@ certificates that are in the file.

FOURTH: Regarding the required information, the claimed party has not submitted
any response to this Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FIFTH: On September 15, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged violation of Article 58.1 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SIXTH: Notified the aforementioned start agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP) and after the period granted

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

for the formulation of allegations, it has been verified that no allegation has been received
any by the claimed party.

Article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP -provision of which the claimed party was informed
in the agreement to open the procedure - establishes that if no
arguments within the established term on the content of the initiation agreement, when
it contains a precise pronouncement about the imputed responsibility,
may be considered a resolution proposal. In the present case, the agreement of
beginning of the disciplinary file determined the facts in which the
imputation, the infringement of the GDPR attributed to the defendant and the sanction that could
impose. Therefore, taking into consideration that the claimed party has not
made allegations to the agreement to start the file and in attention to what
established in article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned initiation agreement is
considered in the present case resolution proposal.

SEVENTH: According to the report collected from the AXESOR tool, the entity
ADENET SYSTEMS, S.L. is an SME (Microenterprise), established in 1996, and
with a turnover of 409,314 euros in the year 2020.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The information requirements indicated in the second background
and third were notified electronically, in accordance with the provisions of article
43 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: The claimed party has not responded to the information requirements
carried out by this Agency within the terms granted for it within the framework of the
research actions referenced with the code EXP202104920.

THIRD: Notification of the agreement to start this procedure
disciplinary action was carried out electronically through the Notific@ system, being
collected by the person in charge on September 22, 2022.

FOURTH: The claimed party has not submitted allegations to the agreement to start
this disciplinary procedure.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

Competence

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter GDPR), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to
www.aepd.es
C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of data.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures."

II

breached obligation

Based on the available evidence, it is considered that the party
claimed has not provided the Spanish Data Protection Agency with the
information you requested.

With the indicated conduct of the claimed party, the investigative power that the
Article 58.1 of the GDPR gives the control authorities, in this case, the AEPD,
has been hampered.

Therefore, the facts described in the "Facts" section are considered to constitute
an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 58.1 of the
GDPR, which provides that each control authority will have, among its powers of
investigation:

“a) order the person responsible and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the
representative of the manager or manager, who provide any information
that it requires for the performance of its functions; b) carry out investigations in
form of data protection audits; c) carry out a review of the
certificates issued under article 42, paragraph 7; d) notify the
responsible or the person in charge of the treatment the alleged infractions of the present
Regulation; e) obtain from the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment access to
all personal data and all the information necessary for the exercise of their
functions; f) obtain access to all the premises of the person in charge and of the person in charge of the
processing, including any data processing equipment and means, of
accordance with the procedural law of the Union or of the Member States.”

Classification and classification of the offense

II

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the
exposed facts could constitute an infringement, attributable to the party
claimed.

This infringement is typified in article 83.5.e) of the GDPR, which considers as such: "no
facilitate access in breach of article 58, section 1”.

The same article establishes that this infraction can be sanctioned with a fine.
twenty million euros (€20,000,000) maximum or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to four percent (4%) maximum of the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the alleged infringement
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
the following behavior is very serious:

"ñ) Failing to facilitate access by data protection authority personnel
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority for the
exercise of its investigative powers.
o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the authority
of competent data protection.”

IV.

sanction imputed

In accordance with the facts exposed, it is considered that it corresponds to impute to the party
claimed for the violation of article 58.1 of the GDPR typified in article 83.5 e)
of the GDPR. The sanction that corresponds to impose is an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR. In
Consequently, the sanction to be imposed must be graduated according to the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the GDPR, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 GDPR.

It is appreciated that no mitigating or aggravating circumstance is applicable.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE ADENET SYSTEMS, S.L., with NIF B47387253, for a
infringement of Article 58.1 of the GDPR, typified in Article 83.5 of the GDPR, a
fine of 3,000.00 euros (THREE THOUSAND euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to ADENET SYSTEMS, S.L..

THIRD: Warn the penalized person that they must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

