1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00405/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On July 31, 2019, he entered this Agency in writing
claim filed by A.A.A. concerning the dissemination of images of his minor son
of four years, without the consent of the parents, by the Cultural Association
***ASOCIACIÓN.1, which the minor attended to receive Chinese classes, in several
Wechat groups (according to the claimant, a service similar to WhatsApp
used by the Chinese community).
The grounds on which the claim is based are the dissemination of images of a minor
four years, without parental consent, by the Cultural Association
***ASOCIACIÓN.1, to which the minor attended Chinese classes, in several groups of
WeChat (according to the claimant, a service similar to WhatsApp used by
the Chinese community).
The claimant states that the images, in which it seems that she hides
partially the minor's face by superimposing a digital sticker, it is
spread from the telephone number of a teacher of the Association to the
groups.
He accredits having addressed the Association so that they eliminate these publications and request
apologize in those same forums, stating that they have neglected these requests.
That according to the complainant took place on the date of: May 31, 2019
And, among other things, attach the following documentation:

 Various screenshots of photos distributed via WeChat messaging
 Letter addressed to the association

The claimant states that the images, in which the face is partially hidden
of the minor by superimposing a sticker, would have spread from the
telephone number of a teacher of the Association to the groups called:
***GROUP 1,
 ***GROUP.2 or ***GROUP.3 of said Association, all of them
composed of an average of four hundred people.
Likewise, the claimant accredits having addressed the Association so that they eliminate
those publications and apologize in those same forums, stating that they have
ignored these requests.
SECOND: On September 3, 2019, after analyzing the documentation that
was in the file, a resolution was issued by the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection, agreeing to file the claim, as it was not appreciated
elements that would make it possible to investigate a violation of the rights recognized in
the scope of competence of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

The resolution was notified to the affected party on September 6, 2019, according to
notice of receipt that appears in the file.

THIRD: On October 4, 2019 A.A.A. has filed an appeal for
reposition -RR/00669/2019-, reiterating the arguments set forth in its written
claim and adding that the controversial images were republished
from the telephone number ***PHONE.1, contact number of the Association,
along with comments about the minor's misbehavior.
Likewise, the claimant points out that, despite the fact that the face of the minor is
hide, continues to be identifiable, especially for the rest of the parents who carry
their children to the Association.

FOURTH
 O: On November 19, 2019, it is resolved to estimate the appeal of
 
reinstatement filed by the claimant against the resolution of this Agency issued
on September 3, 2019, and agree to admit the claim for processing
filed against the defendant.
The claimant is notified on December 3, 2019 and a new
file with reference number E/08183/2020.
FIFTH: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/08183/2020, transfer of
said claim to the claimed, on September 3, 2020, so that it proceeded
to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the actions
carried out to comply with the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

SIXTH: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
provided by the claimant, the General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded
to carry out preliminary investigation actions to clarify the
facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the
established in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD).

As a result of the research actions carried out, the
following ends:

 Made a request for information on the facts claimed through
certified postal service to the investigated Association, to the address provided
by the claimant, dated June 26, 2020, is returned by
"Unknown".

 It is verified in Google Maps that said Association appears in the aforementioned

postal address.
The complainant indicates that the diffusion took place, in the first instance, on 31
May 2019 at 11:30 from the phone number ***TELÉFONO.2 that
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es



C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

3/7

manifest belongs to a teacher of the Association. Done
requirement regarding the ownership of this telephone number to VODAFONE
ESPAÑA S.A.U., operator of this number, dated October 6,
2020 is received in this Agency, written response to the request
stating that on the date indicated by the claimant the telephone number
was not assigned to any user. This phone number does not appear in
WeChat messages provided but if a few characters in Chinese, in
substitution of the telephone number, which could correspond to the holder of the
the same that the claimant had recorded in the agenda.
If the claimant provides evidence of a second dissemination of videos from
a second phone number on May 31, 2019 at 11:45 a.m.
corresponds to the contact number of the association. In the pictures
provided corresponding to frames of a video of the minor, the face of the
minor is totally covered by a digital sticker except for one of them
which is partially covered and in which it is possible to identify
clearly the minor.



 It is verified, by the screenshots of the messages, that this diffusion

it was produced to groups containing between 400 and 500 followers.

 On October 26, 2020, the request for information on
the facts denounced to the investigated Association resulting returned by
unknown recipient on October 29, 2020.

 Requested the tax identification number of the Cultural Association
***ASSOCIATION.1
the TAX AGENCY SERVICE OF
PLANNING AND INSTITUTIONAL RELATIONS, dated December 28,
October, the requested information is received in this Agency.

a

SEVENTH: On January 12, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

EIGHTH: The agreement to initiate this sanctioning procedure was notified
to the one claimed on January 26, 2021, but he has not issued any allegation in the
deadline given for it.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: The dissemination of images of a child under four years of age, without the
consent of the parents, by the Cultural Association ***ASOCIACIÓN.1, to which
the minor attended Chinese classes.

SECOND: On September 3, 2019, it was agreed to file the
claim, as there were no elements that would allow an investigation of a violation of
the rights recognized in the field of competence of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

However, on November 19, 2019, it was decided to uphold the appeal for reconsideration
filed by the claimant on October 4, 2019 reiterating the arguments
exposed in his statement of claim and adding that the controversial images
were republished from the phone number ***PHONE.1, number of
contact of the Association, and a new file is opened with a reference number
E/08183/2020.

THIRD
 O: On January 26, 2021, the agreement to start this
 
procedure, becoming the same in resolution proposal in accordance
with articles 64.2.f) and 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative of Public Administrations (LPACAP), by not carrying out the
claimed allegations within the indicated period.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the
processing of personal data, specifically in section 1.a) it is indicated that
The processing of personal data will be understood as lawful if they gave their consent.

In this sense, and in application to the present case, where the right to
protection of the image of minors, note that article 8 of the RGPD regulates the
conditions applicable to the consent of the child in relation to the services of the
information society, indicating that:

“1- When article 6, section 1, letter a) is applied in relation to the offer
directly to children from services of the information society, the treatment of
personal data of a child will be considered lawful when they are at least 16 years old.
If the child is under 16 years of age, such treatment will only be considered lawful if the
consent was given or authorized by the holder of parental authority or guardianship over the child, and
only to the extent that it was given or authorized.

Member States may establish by law a lower age for such purposes,
provided that this is not less than 13 years.

2. The controller will make reasonable efforts to verify in such
cases in which the consent was given or authorized by the holder of parental authority or
guardianship over the child, taking into account the available technology.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

3. Paragraph 1 shall not affect the general provisions of the Contract Law of
Member States, such as the rules relating to the validity, formation or effects of
contracts in relation to a child.”

Therefore, for the processing of personal data of minors to be lawful
object of this case, the consent of the person who has parental authority will be required.
or guardianship

III

In the present case, the claim focuses on the unauthorized use of the image of the
minor child of the claimant, without the legal legitimacy required for this purpose.

Note that the exceptions of article 2 of the RGPD would not apply, among which
that the domestic use of personal data is contemplated since the image object
of this claim has been sent to more than 400 people, all of them
members of the accused association.

In accordance with the reported facts, we find ourselves before an infraction,
attributable to the claimed, for the processing of personal data, regulated in art. 6.1
a) of the RGPD, in relation to article 8.1 of the RGPD when treating the image of a minor,
without the consent of the person holding his parental authority.

IV

By virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 of the RGPD, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, as a control authority, has a set of
corrective powers in the event of an infraction of the precepts of the
GDPR.
Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following:
“2 Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers
listed below:
(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;"
(...)
“d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a specified manner and within a specified period;”
“i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;"

Article 72.1.b) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

after three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

v

This infraction can be sanctioned with a maximum fine of €20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
following criteria established by article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

In the present case we are dealing with unintentional negligent action, but


significant (article 83.2 b)

Basic personal identifiers are affected, in this case the


image of the minor, according to article 83.2 g).

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CULTURAL ASSOCIATION ***ASOCIACIÓN.1, with NIF
G98925795, for an infringement of article 6.1.a) of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of 3,000 euros (three thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CULTURAL ASSOCIATION
*** ASSOCIATION.1.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted nº ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

