

Path: Home Page > Main Menu > Supervisory and Decision-Making Business Company
UOOU-01100/20


The inspection was with this company
initiated on the basis of 52 complaints about the sending of commercial messages that were
sent precisely for the benefit of the controlled person, or the controlled person was
by the operator of online stores that were promoted in this way. It was discussed
o commercial messages offering various consumer goods, such as masks,
respirators, dental products, hair removal products, etc. and was sent almost
the whole year (February 2020-January 2021). She was first in this thing
a preliminary check was carried out in order to find out the actual sender of these
business messages. In the case of two controlling sending domains
they found out that the sender is the person being checked. In others
cases involved foreign senders who could not be traced. After pre-inspections have been carried out
actions, the Office focused precisely on the controlled person, because
in the case of two domains, she was the actual sender, and further because all
commercial messages were directed in her favor. As part of this proceeding
the controlled person sent only one response (as mentioned above
in the framework of pre-control procedures). In that to document the legal titles for
mailings to individual e-mail addresses, she admitted cooperation with the big one
by a number of domestic and foreign partners, in the form of affiliates
marketing - i.e. in the form of payments for brought customers. Specific consents
subject addressees to send commercial messages, however, the controlled person
she did not testify.

Given the fact that
upon further requests by the controller to provide cooperation, the controlled person
she did not respond, a sanction was imposed on her for violating ยง 10, paragraph 2 of the inspection regulations
in the amount of CZK 50,000. The inspector thus concluded that the inspected person
as the disseminator of commercial communications for whose benefit the commercial communications are
sent, disseminated the commercial messages in question without prior provable evidence
the consent of the addressees, and thus in violation of ยง 7, paragraph 2 of Act No. 480/2004 Coll.,
about some information society services. In the case of commercial communications
sent from the two domain names was even in a factual position
the sender. In the case of some commercial communications, the Office stated
also a violation of ยง 7 paragraph 4 letter a) of the aforementioned law, because this business
messages were not properly marked. In all cases it was stated
violation of ยง 7 paragraph 4 letter b) of the aforementioned law, because in the sent
commercial communications did not indicate the identity of the person on whose behalf the communication was made
carries out, i.e. the one on whose behalf the commercial communications are sent. There was more to the matter
appropriate administrative proceedings have been initiated, also with regard to the newly filed one
complaint. However, within it, the party to the proceedings again did not present any evidence about
cooperation with affiliate partners, or working with one affiliate
was proven by the partner, however, this partner within the administrative procedure
stated that the cooperation was discussed, however, it was never started.
The participant in the proceedings did not prove this even in the context of this follow-up proceeding
legal title to send commercial communications to the subject email addresses and
nor did he show that any of the partners he claimed were doing so. He was against the issued decision
however, the breakdown submitted by this participant in full. About the filed breakdown
the Chairman of the Office will further decide.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2021 > Unsolicited commercial communications - 1st half of the year > Commercial companyView current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



