 

 

PRINCIPLE FOR DATA PRIVACY
 
FOR OPIC CHARACTER
 

 

 

 

 

 

         

 

 

Athens, 21-08-2018
 

 

Prot. No.: G/EX/6943/21-08-2018

 

 

        

  

 

 

A P O F A S H A . 56 / 2018
 

   

   

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Department)
 

The Personal Data Protection Authority met, following his invitation
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its President, in a regular meeting on 09-05-2018, following from 21-03-2018
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meeting that took place as adjournment from the meetings dated 02-14-2018 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

07-03-2018, in order to examine the case referred to in the history of the present.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

They were attended by the Deputy President Georgios Batzalexis, obstructing the President of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Principle Constantinos Menoudakou, and alternate members Panagiotis Rontogiannis,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Grigoris Tsolias, as rapporteur, and Evangelos Papakonstantinou, in replacement of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of regular members Antonios Hymbonis, Charalambos Anthopoulos and Konstantinos
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lambrinoudakis, respectively, who, although legally summoned in writing, did not attend
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

due to obstruction. Present without the right to vote were Eumorfia – Iosifina Tsakiridou
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

lawyer-specialist scientist, as assistant rapporteur, and Irini Papageorgopoulou,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

employee of the administrative affairs department, as secretary.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Authority took into account the following:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A large number of complaints regarding telephone harassment have been submitted to the Authority
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are carried out in the context of informing debtors about overdue claims (either these
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

are made, on behalf of creditors, by debtor information companies (hereafter EEO) –

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which is the most common case – whether they are done by the lenders themselves). The relevant
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complaints have been grouped for their more effective handling (cf. Decision
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

98/2017 and Annual Reports 2012, 2013, 2015 and 2017 of the Authority). The majority of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these complaints concern the issue of the legality of making the data available to EEO
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

without the prior consent or prior (general or specific information) of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1

 

debtors, an issue on which the Authority has already ruled (see Decision 98/2017 and recommendations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

no. prot. G/EX/4744/12-07-2013).
  

 

 

 

 

 the cases examined with this one are complained of by citizens as a nuisance in error
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

person and the issue of data accuracy and correction must be considered
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of these. Between 2015 and 2017, there were a total of eleven (11) complaints
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

against Alpha Bank, four (4) against National Bank and three (3) against Eurobank.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 specifically, all complainants complain about telephone harassment they receive
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

without having a relationship with the debtors sought in the context of debtor information.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 in most cases the telephone number previously belonged to a debtor or was given,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as the banks claim, from the debtors themselves when drawing up the contract.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

On the other hand, complainants are admittedly in a difficult position because, usually, they do not
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

they know from which lender the phone calls are being made, so that they can exercise it
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

right of objection [see and Decision 53/2016, according to which the telephone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication must be strictly limited to the search of the debtor and, until achieved
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

conversation with the debtor, not to reveal to third parties more information that affects the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

debtor, in case the debtor is not located but third parties should be
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the conversation is gracefully interrupted, without revealing the purpose of the call and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identity of the caller (as the call is for the debtor's personal matter)].
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 it is noted that complainants do not usually exercise the right to object to lenders,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

so that the necessary actions can be taken to correct the details of the debtors and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

not disturbing them in the future (since they are not related to the debtors and the debt). The
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

complainants usually submit complaints directly to the General Secretariat of Trade
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and Consumer Protection (hereafter GSEPK) which has the general competence as a rule
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supervision of the activity of informing debtors, in accordance with article 10 par. 1 of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3758/2009, or to the Authority that has special exceptional competence for specific only
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

violations of Law 3758/2009. Therefore, the banks are informed of the relevant complaints by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

GGEPC or from the APDPH, i.e. from the supervisory authorities that request clarifications on the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reported.
  

 
 in the context of examining the above complaints, the Authority requested clarifications from the Bank
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eurobank Ergasias S.A. (prot. no. C/EX/7474/17-10-2017), which were submitted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in writing (prot. no. G/EI /8549/28-11-2017 and G/EI /9151/19-12-2017). Subsequently, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2

 

Eurobank was legally summoned to a hearing during the discussion of the case before the Authority on
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14-02-2018 with the no. prot. C/EX/1031/06-02-2018 call and attended, was informed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for the postponement of the debate and came again to the meeting of 03-21-2018. During the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

meeting, Eurobank presented its views orally, which it further developed
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

thoroughly with a relevant document and its reminder (prot. no. Γ/ΕΙ /2556/30-03-2018).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In particular, according to the clarifications of Eurobank Ergasias SA. (hereinafter Eurobank or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank):
 

First of all, the Bank declares that its main concern and task is the control of accuracy
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of its customers' data. Its relevant obligation derives from the provisions of law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2472/1997 (article 4 par. 1 sub. c), but also by the supervisory framework, to which it is subject as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a credit institution supervised by the Bank of Greece. In particular, the certification and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

verifying the identity of the customers is an obligation of the credit institutions, h
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

which is provided by the decision 281/2009 of the Banking and Credit Commission
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Issues of the Bank of Greece, in accordance with the "know your customer" principle, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aims to prevent money laundering from illegal activities. the frame
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

this the Bank when submitting to it an application for receiving a banking service
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(deposit, credit card, loan, etc.) collects from the customer, among other necessary
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his details, and his telephone number, which it registers in its systems,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as an element of her communication with him, and the client based on a relevant provision in her OGs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank is obliged in case of change of the above contact information to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

notifies the Bank in writing or electronically - where provided - of this change.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Furthermore, the Bank itself takes care of the regular updating of customer details
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of, among them and the telephone contact number with them. To this end,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank:
 

a) informs those dealing with it about their obligations arising from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

from the above legislation, i.e. the provision of data and information that certify the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identity and the origin of their incomes and the need to update them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

at regular intervals through the provision of a special "registered" form of the Hellenic
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Union of Banks in the reception areas of its branches,
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

b) confirms in each new communication with the customer or in connection with the provision to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

other banking services, the accuracy and correctness of its data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supporting documents to verify the relevant information (e.g. for the telephone number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of: mobile or landline account),
 

 

 

 

 

 

3

 

c) sends invitations to its client to update his details through a periodical
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

statement, with recorded messages from the telephone service
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EuroPhone Banking as well as with messages from the E-Banking/Mobile Banking service,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

d) in the context of the delay resolution process based on the revised Code
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Code of Ethics of Law 4224/2013 invites the customer who has an overdue debt, which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

falls under the above procedure, to update his details with the warning that,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as provided by the Code, his failure to respond to the above invitation constitutes a reason
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

categorizing him as a "non-cooperative borrower",
  

 

 

 

 

 

e) especially with regard to the telephone numbers of its customers: as long as the Bank informs
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

that the phone call number used to inform the debtor is not his
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

belongs to, carries out a special marking in its computerized system, so that this number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

henceforth become inactive and not to be used again. then investigates correctness
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the information and if there is a strong indication that this number does not actually belong
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

to the debtor, the Bank proceeds with the definitive deletion of the specific telephone number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

number. After all, the deletion of his phone number from the Bank's relevant file
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

debtor based on just a telephone statement of a person, while previously
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has been cross-checked by the Bank the accuracy of the data, would constitute according to the Bank
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and violation of Law 2472/1997 to the extent not ascertained on the basis of this statement and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

only the inaccuracy of the data, it is usually the debtor or his relative who answers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in the call, in order to avoid making a telephone call, to falsely claim that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is not the debtor and that the telephone number used is not accurate.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With reference to the specific complaints, with which the applicants protested,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

because they were summoned by EEO, the Bank states that the telephone numbers of the complainants
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had been given by customers of the bank in the context of drawing up a contract with the bank for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

granting them consumer credit products (see attached documents from 08-12-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2017 and from 28-03-2018 its memorandum). That before the notification action the Bank
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

identified its debtors based on the information they had declared in its context
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of their transactional relationship and which were kept in its computerized system. Finally, that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

when the inaccuracy of the data was established, he took care of the deletion of the data in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

phone numbers from her file and that she immediately informed the complainant that her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

addressed the written protest.
  

 

 

 

 

The Authority, after examining all the elements of the file, after hearing the rapporteur and the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

assistant rapporteur, who left after the discussion of the case and before the conference
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

 

and making a decision, and after thorough discussion,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOUGHT ACCORDING TO THE LAW
 

 

 

 

 

1. According to article 4 par. 1 item c' of Law 2472/1997, the personal data to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

subject to lawful processing must be accurate and, if necessary, submitted to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

update, in accordance with article 4 par. 4 sec. a' of Law 3758/2009: "4. Before any action
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Confirmation of the debts from the lender to the debtor with each is required as an update
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

available method and the identification of the debtor, as well as informing him of the transmission of the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of his data to the Company in accordance with article 11 of Law 2472/1997, as
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

apply.". Finally, in accordance with article 10 par. 1 of Law 3758/2009, as amended and in force:
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"1. Without prejudice to the written provisions for the protection of personnel data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

character, such as laws 2472/1997 (Government Gazette 50 A`) and 3471/2006 (Government Gazette 133 A`) and others
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of more special provisions, by decision of the Minister of Development is imposed at the expense of the Companies
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"and lenders" who violate the provisions of this law, a fine of five
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

thousand (5,000) to five hundred thousand (500,000) euros. In case of relapse the maximum
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 the fine is doubled and the Minister of Development can also order a temporary one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deletion of the Company from the Register for a period of one (1) to six (6) months and, in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in case of further recurrence, may order the definitive deletion of the Company. Especially
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for violations of paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 4, paragraph 7 of article 6 and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

paragraph 2 of article 8, of which the right to personal protection is affected
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of natural persons' data is the Authority for the Protection of Personal Data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Character. This paragraph applies to the amount of the fine."
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2. In particular, the Authority within the framework of its special competence has decided (see recommendations
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C/EX/4744/12-07-2013) that: "1. Fulfillment of the obligation to check the accuracy of the data
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(article 4 par. 1 item c' of Law 2472/1997 in combination with Article 4 par. 4 sub-section a' of Law
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3758/2009). The lender must process accurate information about the borrower. This means
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 what the lender must confirm the debts and have identified the debtor
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

before any action of informing debtors by him or before the announcement of them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information to a debtor information company. The relevant file can be updated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in any suitable way, as for example by cross-checking the data from public
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accessible sources (e.g. telephone directories available to the general public), with telephone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5

 

communication with the debtor or by sending a relevant letter to confirm the details.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

In the event that it is established that the information that was declared to the lender is incorrect or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

false (for example, when the called citizen declares to the lender that he has nothing to do with
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the debtor or the debt or that the debtor no longer resides in the particular house), the burden for
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

finding the true details of the debtor is the responsibility of the lender. Therefore, it is not allowed to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

citizens are asked to provide documents to prove that they do not have any
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

relationship with the debtor or the debt (as proof of the inaccuracy of the data and until
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

finding the truth, the lender may keep the conversation with the person who declared, e.g.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 that he is not the same debtor or that the specific telephone number no longer belongs to him
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

debtor because he resides elsewhere).
  

 

 

 

 

3. In this case, from the data in the files of the relevant cases, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

following:
  

3.1. For the case of A (Γ/ΕΙ /2224/07-04-2016), which was submitted through the online
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

portal of the Authority. The applicant complains that since 2007 he has been harassed on his mobile phone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

phone for B's debts to Eurobank. The appellant never addressed her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank, considering, as he states, that he cannot demand from the Bank to change the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data of another person, who in fact has no relationship and does not even know. According to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appellant, the nuisances stop temporarily, but after months or even years, they may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

call another EEO. The last call was made, as the appellant states, on 29-03-2016 by a
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EEO. The Bank declares that the phone number in question had been declared as a number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication from the client of B (see the contract attached to the memorandum). According to the Bank,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her client never updated his details, despite repeated requests
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

her invitations. Finally, the Bank declares that before the announcement of the number in question to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EEO, made an effort to verify its correctness based on a publicly accessible source,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

however, her client's phone number had been registered anonymously. According to them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

claims of the Bank, given that the customer had no other transactional relationship and
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication with the Bank, the only way to update the item in question at
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

in this case only, it was the redial of the same number.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.2. For the case of C (G/EI /07-07-2015), which was forwarded to the Authority by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection with the no. prot. 70948/01-07-2015
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document. The appellant complains in 2015 that for 8 months he received calls on his mobile phone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

calls from EEO looking for someone unknown to him. According to the bank, the person in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

telephone number had been given by D's client (see the contract attached to the memorandum), the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6

 

who then proceeded to update that item of his. However, the Bank
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

acknowledges that he made a mistake, because of which even though he had to be deleted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

old telephone number, this was not deleted and announced to the EEO. the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

then, when the error in question came to the attention of the Bank, the Bank proceeded to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deletion of incorrect contact information.
  

 

 

 

 

3.3. For the case of E (G/EI /2508/30-04-2015), which was forwarded to the Authority by
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection with the no. prot. 44075/23-04-2015
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

document. The appellant complains that in 2015 he was receiving phone calls on his mobile phone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

harassment from EEOs who were looking for some T. The Bank declares that its number in question
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

had been given by the aforementioned client (see contract attached to the memo), which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

then updated that element of it. However, the Bank
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

acknowledges that he made a mistake, because of which even though he had to be deleted
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

old telephone number, this was not deleted and announced to the EEO. the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

then, when the error in question came to the attention of the Bank, the Bank proceeded to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

deletion of incorrect contact information. Finally, the Bank sent directly to E, o
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

who, along with his complaint to the General Public Prosecutor's Office, also addressed his protest to the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank, written letter of apology, informing him of full settlement
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the issue (see the Bank's letter dated 04-15-2015 to E).
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 in conclusion, the Bank expressly states that in two of the three cases above (3.2. C
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and 3.3. E), even though its customers had updated their contact information
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

them, introduced a bug, due to which the old phone numbers,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

although they should have been deleted, they were not. due to the above error, the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

therefore numbers were announced to EEO and used in the context of informing debtors.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

However, according to the Bank, these are strictly isolated cases and isolated
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

error, which just came to the attention of the Bank, proceeded to delete the incorrect
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

contact details, and informed the applicant who had addressed her
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank. Regarding A, the Bank states that the appellant did not address the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bank and that in this particular case under the circumstances he mentions they were objective
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

impossible to check the phone in question for its accuracy and correctness.
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

4. Regarding the fulfillment of the obligation to check the accuracy of the data (article 4 par.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 pc. c' of Law 2472/1997 in combination with article 4 par. 4 sec. a' of Law 3758/2009), must
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accepted that the lender must process accurate information about the borrower. This
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

means that the creditor must confirm the debts and have carried out his identification
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7

 

debtor before any action to inform debtors or before the announcement of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

information to a debtor information company. Updating the relevant file may
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

be done in any convenient way, as for example by cross-checking the data from public
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accessible sources (e.g. telephone directories available to the general public), with telephone
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

communication with the debtor or by sending a relevant letter to confirm them
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

elements. Besides, banks usually take care of informing their customers
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

about the need to update their information at regular intervals, through
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

distribution of a special "registered" form of the Hellenic Banking Union at the premises
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

reception of its stores, through a recorded message in Phone transactions
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Banking, through electronic messages in E-Banking transactions, and with personalized
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informing the stores when it is established on the occasion of the transaction being carried out that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

their data is incomplete. it is reduced that in loan product contracts and/or
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of services usually includes a condition, according to which the other party,
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

depositor or debtor, is obliged to notify the bank immediately of any change
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

his contact details (contractual obligation). An institutional obligation arises both from
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the definition of the cooperative borrower, as well as the Bank's Code of Conduct
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Greece's.
 

 

 in the event that it is found that the information that was declared to the lender is
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

incorrect or false (for example, when the requested citizen declares to the lender that
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

has nothing to do with the debtor or the debt or that the debtor no longer resides in
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

specific house), the objection/correction request from the EEOs must be registered, to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

is transmitted directly to the lender on whose behalf the communication is made and to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

all necessary corrective actions are taken immediately. Signaling must be done immediately
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the specific telephone number, so that it is not used in the future for any purpose
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

informing or warning about third party debts (as proof of the inaccuracy of
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data and until the truth is found, the lender may keep the conversation with the
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

person who declared e.g. that it is not the same debtor or that the specific number
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

phone no longer belongs to the debtor because he lives elsewhere). If ascertained by public
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

accessible sources or from information provided to the lender by the invited third-party
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

debtor (e.g. bill copy or provider document for their phone number), then
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the specific telephone number provided by must be deleted immediately and permanently
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the debtor and to be informed in any appropriate way, if possible in writing, the above
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

invited third party - non-debtor who requests to correct the observed data and to
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

stop the harassment on his own number.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8

 



The Authority, taking into account the number of complaints, the procedure applied by the Bank
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for checking and correcting the relevant data, the admitted errors which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

appreciated in the specific cases, the seriousness of the violation of article 4 par. 1
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

item c' of Law 2472/1997 in combination with article 4 par. 4 sec. a' of Law 3758/2009 which
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it was also proven the offense caused by it to the data subjects, such as this one
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

detailed above, considers that it should be imposed on Eurobank Ergasias
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S.A., as controller, the (minimum) provided for in article 10 par. 1 of the law.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3758/2009 sanction referred to in the executive order and which is proportional to the gravity
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the infringement and the insult to the applicants from it.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The beginning
 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

It imposes on Eurobank Ergasias S.A. a fine of five thousand (5,000) Euros
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

for non-fulfillment of its obligation to keep and further process accurate
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

data on its debtors to fulfill the provisions of Law 3758/2009
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

purposes in two of the cases examined here (see paragraph 3, cases
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.2. and 3.3.).
  

 

 

 

The Deputy President
 

 

 

 
 
 

The Secretary
 

 

 
 
 

George Batzalexis
 

 

Irini Papageorgopoulou
 

 

9

 

