 
 
 
 
 
 

711.443.1

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

P r e s s e release

June 1, 2021

Berlin data protection officer takes part in Germany-wide audit
international data transfers from companies

 

Cross-border control of the data protection supervisory authorities of companies
to implement the Schrems II decision of the European Court of Justice
 
As part of a transnational control, the Berlin representative for
Data protection and freedom of information Data transfers by companies in
States outside the European Union or the European Economic Area
(third countries). The goal is the broad implementation of the requirements of the
European Court of Justice (ECJ) in its Schrems II decision of July 16
2020 (Case C-311/18).
 
In its Schrems II decision, the court found that transmissions in
the USA can no longer be based on the so-called Privacy Shield. Of the
Use of the standard data protection clauses for data transfers to third countries
furthermore only sufficient with the use of effective additional measures,
if the examination of the person responsible has shown that in the recipient country no
an equivalent level of protection for personal data can be guaranteed
can. The judgment of the ECJ requires a fundamental change in many cases
long-established business models and processes.
 
The authorities participating in the control now write the selected ones
companies on the basis of a common catalog of questions. It will
among other things, the use of service providers for sending e-mails and for hosting
of websites, for web tracking, for the administration of applicant data and
to the intra-group exchange of customer data and data
employees go. Each supervisory authority decides individually in which of these
Subject areas are checked and whether the catalog of questions is regionally adapted.
 
The Court has clearly stated its expectation that the authorities will
"Suspend or ban" transfers. Suspending a delivery can
are likely to succeed in many cases in cooperative dialogue with the companies.
Where this is not possible, the available ones will be used
responded to regulatory actions. The supervisory authorities are aware of the

 
Responsible: Simon Rebiger

Office: Cristina Vecchi

Email: presse@datenschutz-berlin.de
 

 

 
Friedrichstr. 219
10969 Berlin

 

Tel: 030 13889 - 900
Fax: 030 2155050

 

 

 

 

   

- 2 -

special challenges that the ECJ judgment on Schrems II for the
companies in Germany and Europe entails, consciously.
 
The joint questionnaires can be accessed here.
 
Maja Smoltczyk:
 
“The times when personal data was transferred to the US as before
were over after the Schrems II judgment. The European Court of Justice
has expressly obliged the supervisory authorities to prohibit impermissible data transmissions
to disallow. We are reacting to this with the examination that is now starting
Challenges."

 

