Decision

Diary no

2020-12-02

DI-2019-3844

Aleris Sjukvård AB
c/o Aleris Specialist Care Sabbatsberg
Box 6401
113 82 Stockholm
Stockholm County

Supervision according to the data protection regulation and
patient data act- needs and risk analysis and
questions about access in records systems
Table of Contents
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision................................................... ..................................... 2
Statement of the supervisory case................................................ ............................ 3
What emerged in the case................................................ .......................... 3
Internal confidentiality................................................... ................................................... ... 5
Coherent record keeping................................................ ............................ 8
Documentation of the access (logs)................................................ ............... 9
Aleri's opinion on the Swedish Data Protection Authority's letter................................... 9
Justification of decision................................................... ............................................. 10
Applicable rules................................................ ................................................ 10
The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment................................................... ....................... 15
Choice of intervention................................................... .............................................. 23
Appendix................................................... ................................................... ............. 29
Copy for the information of................................................... .................................... 29
How to appeal............................................... ............................................. 29

Postal address: Box 8114, 104 20 Stockholm
Website: www.datainspektionen.se

E-mail: datainspektionen@datainspektionen.se
Telephone: 08-657 61 00

Page 1 of 30

1 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's decision
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has, during an inspection on April 8, 2019, found that Aleris
Sjukvård AB processes personal data in violation of article 5.1 f and 5.2 as well as
article 32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation1 by
1.

Aleris Sjukvård AB has not carried out a needs and risk analysis
before authorizations are assigned in the TakeCare records system, i
in accordance with ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act (2008:355)
and ch. 4 § 2 The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general advice on
record keeping and processing of personal data in health and
healthcare (HSLF-FS 2016:40). This means that Aleris Sjukvård AB
have not taken appropriate organizational measures to be able to
ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing of the personal data has
a security that is suitable in relation to the risks.

2. Aleris Sjukvård AB does not limit users' authorizations for
access to the TakeCare records system to what is only needed for
that the user must be able to fulfill his duties in health and medical care according to ch. 4. § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act and 4
Cape. Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40. This means that Aleris Sjukvård AB does not have
taken measures to be able to ensure and be able to demonstrate a suitable
security of personal data.
Datainspektionen decides with the support of articles 58.2 and 83 i
data protection regulation to Aleris Sjukvård AB, for violation of
article 5.1 f and 5.2 and article 32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation,
must pay an administrative sanction fee of 15,000,000 (fifteen
million) kroner.
Datainspektionen orders with the support of article 58.2 d i
data protection regulation Aleris Sjukvård AB to implement and document
required needs and risk analysis for the TakeCare records system and that
then, based on the needs and risk analysis, assign each user

1

REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 April 2016
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on that
free flow of such data and on the repeal of Directive 95/46/EC (general
data protection regulation).

Page 2 of 30

2 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

individual authorization for access to personal data which is limited to
only what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
tasks within the health and medical care, in accordance with article 5.1 f and
article 32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation, ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7
the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.

Account of the supervisory matter
The Data Inspectorate's supervision was initiated by means of a supervisory letter on 22 March
2019 and has taken place both in writing and through an on-site inspection on April 8
2019. The supervision has intended to check whether Aleris Sjukvård AB's (hereinafter referred to as
Aleris) decision on the allocation of authorizations has been preceded by a need and
risk analysis. The supervision has also included how Aleris has assigned authorizations
for access to the TakeCare main record system, and which
access opportunities the assigned permissions provide within the scope of as well as
the internal secrecy according to ch. 4 the Patient Data Act, as the consolidated
record keeping according to ch. 6 the patient data act. In addition to this have
The Swedish Data Protection Authority reviewed the documentation of access (logs) which
is in the journal system.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has only reviewed the user's access to
the journal system, i.e. which care documentation the user can actually take
part of and read. The inspection did not cover which functions were included
the authorization, i.e. what the user can actually do in the records system
(eg issuing prescriptions, writing referrals, etc.).
The inspection is one of several inspections within the framework of a self-initiated one
supervisory project at the Data Inspectorate, where i.a. Karolinska
The University Hospital has been included. Due to what has emerged about
Aleri's perception of the technical possibilities to limit
the read permission of its users in TakeCare, Aleris was asked to specifically
comment on an opinion from Karolinska University Hospital, which also
uses TakeCare, where the technical possibilities concerning TakeCare
was described.
What emerged in the case
Aleris has essentially stated the following.

Page 3 of 30

3 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

Personal data responsibility
Aleris is a care provider and personal data controller.
The business
Aleri's ownership structure has changed after the Data Inspection Authority's review
was initiated. Aleri's new ownership structure is shown in Aleri's supplement from the 16
November 2020. The addition shows, among other things, the following.
Since 1 October 2019, Aleris has been included in the newly formed group parent company,
Aleris Group AB (org. no. 559210-7550), and is a subsidiary of Aleris
Healthcare AB (org. no. 556598–6782). Aleris Group AB is owned by Triton.
Group turnover for Aleris Group AB amounted to SEK 1,215,385,000
between October 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019. Because Aleris Group
AB was formed in connection with the change of ownership when Aleris Healthcare AB with
subsidiaries were acquired, only turnover figures are available for this
period.
The annual turnover for Aleris Healthcare AB amounted to SEK 30,223,866
during 2019.
Journal system
Since May 28, 2012, Aleris has been using TakeCare as the main record system
for the internal secrecy and within the framework of the cohesive
record keeping.
Federation Samverkan TakeCare (FSTC) is the customer of the records system
TakeCare and CompuGroup Medical (CGM) are suppliers of the medical record system
and is responsible for the functions that the system has to control permissions.
All functions of the records system are created by CGM, but it is Aleris that
chooses which functions a certain staff category should have access to
the functions that are embedded. Aleris has no technical possibilities to do
changes in TakeCare as Aleris has no control over
the journal system. Aleris is only a user of the system.
Aleris has not been able to make any demands on CGM in the procurement of
the journal system. For example, the company has pointed out that there were problems
with the record system consisting in, as far as the authorization assignment is concerned, that

Page 4 of 30

4 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

the system cannot separate read and print permissions for a read function.
CGM has not been interested in changing this despite views from
Aleris.
It is the FSTC that can order changes to the functions and that's it
up to CGM whether they want to make the changes or not. Aleris has one
representative in FSTC who can express Aleri's wishes. However, Aleris has not
received some attention for the company's views.
Number of patients and employees
Aleris had 796,350 unique patients in TakeCare as of May 20, 2019. How
however, many of these who were deceased could not be retrieved.
In May 2019, there were 1,058 active users, 807 active accounts and 63
units in the TakeCare record system. The number of active users (ie employees
and consultants who may have access to TakeCare) has been calculated by
count the number of active AD accounts on relevant cost centers.
Internal confidentiality
Aleris has essentially stated the following.
Needs and risk analysis
Aleris has stated that needs and risk analyzes aimed at TakeCare are being carried out
by an appointed risk analysis team in order to review the current authorization allocation
and possibly determine new conditions for authorization allocation. Permissions
is always limited to what is needed for the employee to be able to perform
their work and contribute to safe care. The need versus the risk of impropriety
access is always balanced against each other before permissions are granted. General
authorization profiles exist, if necessary, specific authorizations are assigned. The
later reviewed in particular during subsequent analysis by appointed risk analysis team. What
which are particularly taken into account are the risks that may arise if an employee has
too broad authorization versus too low authorization and thus no access to
relevant patient information. The result from the needs and risk analysis is
then the basis for choosing the authorization profile used for assignment
of authorizations within Aleris.
Entitlement to TakeCare is ordered by the responsible manager, as can be seen from
the document, "Entitlement management TakeCare". It is also clear from the document
that the authorization is personal and that its scope is based on

Page 5 of 30

5 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

the user's professional role and organizational domicile. Furthermore, it appears that
the healthcare provider must ensure that the authorization for access to patient data
is limited to what a user needs to be able to perform their tasks
tasks within health care.
Aleris has a document called "Needs and risk analysis - TakeCare".
The document has looked as it does today since May 28, 2012 when TakeCare
was introduced and applies both to the internal secrecy and within the framework of it
coherent record keeping. The document shows the different profiles,
so-called authorization groups. The document shows, among other things
the read and write rights for each authorization group.
All profiles except technicians have been assigned read access to the tasks in
TakeCare. The eligibility of each group has been justified. The doctors are coming
for example being able to perform their duties and being responsible for
patient information, while the system administrator must be able to debug,
administer and post users, systems and local administrators.
Under the heading "Risk of limited access" it is stated that the user "cannot
perform their duties fully". This justification is stated for all
profiles (except the local administrators where the justification is "Can't
manage authorizations and implement corrective actions”). During
the heading "Risk in case of extensive access" states, among other things, that "There is a
risk of disclosure of patient information”. Similar justification is given for all
profiles.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
Aleris has stated that it is the system administrator that has the highest
authorization level, i.e. full authority, in TakeCare. The local
the administrator has access to his own device and is the one who assigns
the permissions within the device. What authorization an administrator imposes
a user depends on the business the user belongs to and on
the user's tasks. All users get the "minimum they should have."
to get by” in terms of accessibility. However, access can
be expanded if necessary. There are basic profiles for, for example, assistant nurses,
who receive the necessary authorization to be able to carry out their duties
duties. If the manager judges that the assistant nurses need one
extended permission, the local administrators ensure that the permission
"put on" the basic profile. If the extended authorization is not needed, it can be taken
away from the basic profile.

Page 6 of 30

6 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

Aleris has stated that all accounts within Aleris are individual and that
the authorizations are assigned based on the document, "Needs and risk analysis TakeCare". As previously mentioned, it appears from the document that all
professional profiles other than technicians have been assigned read access to the tasks i
TakeCare.
However, Aleris has stated that all users have different read permissions in
the journal system based on which system functions they have access to
Aleris. According to Aleris, access to TakeCare can be turned off
by giving different personnel authorization for different functions. Each
staff category only get access to the functions they need for
to be able to perform their work. Technicians, for example, have limited authorization
depending on what they will do in the system. They only get read access if they
need it in their work. Another example concerns users who just
will sit in the cash register and thus do not need to have a read permission.
There is no staff whose sole task is to manage the cash register
the current situation.
By choosing different functions for different users, a difference is made in
what different users can do in the system, e.g. in terms of certifying, signing,
etc. In total, there are 640 different system functions that you can choose to provide
authorization to. Among these functions, Aleris has selected the functions that
different staff categories need to have access to in order to run a safe
patient work. The document "Profiles and authorizations" shows the different ones
authorizations that the respective staff category has been assigned in TakeCare, e.g.
dictate audio files, read activities, sign, read emergency tasks, read journal text,
vidimering, read referral, administer medication prescription, read scans
documents and approve care opportunities. The document shows, among other things
that all profiles, i.e. doctors, nurses, assistant nurses,
paramedic, secretary, "administrative", student and "Receptionist
Rehab" has authorization to "read journal text" and that everyone except
"Receptionist Rehab" has permission to "read scanned documents" i
TakeCare. It also appears that only doctors are authorized to "read
emergency duties" and that all profiles except assistant nurse and
"administratively" can "read diagnoses" in TakeCare.
Aleris has stated that the starting point is that one user on one device only
has read access to the patient records on the unit. One
users who need to read journal entries from another device must

Page 7 of 30

7 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

make an active choice in the system. Active choices mean that the user can make
a number of "clicks" and select the current device (this function is called
journal filter). Permission to use the journal filter is given to them
users who need this to be able to perform their work.
The user can never accidentally read one patient record from another
unit.
Aleris has stated that there are features in TakeCare for a caregiver
must be able to "isolate" a care unit and thereby "shut out" others
caregivers' and care units' access possibilities to the unit's
care documentation, so-called protected units. However, Aleris does not operate
any activity that requires protected devices and therefore has not used
opt out of this function.
Coherent record keeping
Aleris has essentially stated the following.
Needs and risk analysis
The document "Needs and risk analysis - TakeCare" also applies to the system for
coherent record keeping.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
Authorization is assigned in the same way as within the framework of the internal
the secrecy.
Within the framework of coherent record keeping in TakeCare, users can take
part of all care documentation with other care providers included in the system.
The user can initially see if a patient is current with other healthcare providers,
but not which ones. To be able to see who these caregivers are, the user must
click further in the system, i.e. make active choices. The user must then
click the “consent” or “emergency access” box to access it
specific health care provider's records.
Aleris has stated the following on the grounds that Karolinska
The University Hospital in a statement has stated that there are opportunities to
restrict access in TakeCare.
There is a function to "isolate" a care unit and thereby close it
outside the access possibilities of other care providers and care units (so-called

Page 8 of 30

8 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

protected devices). A healthcare provider can thus from a technical perspective
restrict other care providers' access to their own care documentation.
However, Aleris has assessed that the company does not carry out any activities that
need to be blocked and that it is more patient-safe to allow patient information
at Aleri's units be available to other healthcare providers. According to Aleris, it is
moreover, not allowed to implement such restrictions if one
care providers use the record system TakeCare and at the same time are included in
coherent record keeping. This is after a decision from Region Stockholm. The
means that all users at Aleris have access to all patient data
with the other care providers in TakeCare, except when the patients have requested to
have their data blocked (a so-called caregiver block).
According to Aleris, from a patient safety perspective, it is not practically possible
to opt out of individual care providers' access to their own care documentation
in TakeCare (with the exception of protected devices). Either is the caregiver
included in the system for coherent record keeping or not. It is not possible to
restrict access by authorized persons to other healthcare providers' information
and at the same time meaningfully participate in coherent record keeping.
According to Aleris, it is not possible to determine in advance which data is in one
a certain case can be important for patient-safe care. Aleris has therefore decided
not to actively block other healthcare providers' records. However, can, such as
mentioned, a caregiver himself blocks other caregivers' access in TakeCare there
these have made the assessment that their patients' medical records should not be
available to other healthcare providers. These devices are marked in TakeCare
with an asterisk. In this way, a selection of care units has already been made
Aleri's staff do not have access to.
Documentation of the access (logs)
Aleri's log documentation shows, among other things, the following: the user's and
the patient's identity, care unit, date, time, information that the user
have documented in the journal during the last 18 months and information
that the patient has had contact with the care unit during the past 18
the months.
Aleris has the ability to perform targeted log checks. This means that Aleris
can see exactly what a user has done in the system. About the patient or Aleris
suspects a data breach, Aleris can also perform an in-depth log check.

Page 9 of 30

9 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

Also all activities that take place within the framework of coherent record keeping
logged in the system. It also means that all active choices are logged in the system. If
the user, for example, selected "consent" or "emergency access", to be able to take
part of a patient's data with another healthcare provider, this will
appear from the log documentation.
Aleri's opinion on the Swedish Data Protection Authority's letter
Aleris has comments on the letter Final communication before decisions that
received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority on March 20, 2020 stating, among other things, the following.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority should take into account the figures for the economic unit where they
the alleged deficiencies took place, i.e. Aleris Sjukvård AB.
Aleris has actively worked to continuously strengthen the internal and external
the confidentiality, including the functionality of TakeCare. When Aleris took
adequate measures to, through the FSTC, strengthen integrity within TakeCare
should actual deficiencies in TakeCare not be deemed to be Aleris' fault.

Justification of decisions
Applicable rules
The Data Protection Regulation the primary legal source
The Data Protection Regulation, often abbreviated GDPR, was introduced on May 25, 2018 and
is the primary legal regulation when processing personal data. This
also applies in healthcare.
The basic principles for processing personal data are stated in
Article 5 of the Data Protection Regulation. A basic principle is the requirement of
security according to Article 5.1 f, which states that the personal data must be processed
in a way that ensures appropriate security for the personal data,
including protection against unauthorized or unauthorized processing and against loss,
destruction or damage by accident, using appropriate
technical or organizational measures.
From article 5.2 it appears that the so-called the liability, i.e. that it
"personal data controllers must be responsible for and be able to demonstrate that they
the basic principles in point 1 are complied with'.

Page 10 of 30

1 0 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

Article 24 deals with the responsibility of the personal data controller. Of Article 24.1
it appears that the person in charge of personal data is responsible for carrying out appropriate
technical and organizational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that
the processing is carried out in accordance with the data protection regulation. The actions shall
carried out taking into account the nature, scope and context of the treatment
and purpose as well as the risks, of varying degree of probability and seriousness, for
liberties and rights of natural persons. The measures must be reviewed and updated
if necessary.
Article 32 regulates security in connection with processing. According to point 1
must the personal data controller and the personal data assistant with consideration
of the latest developments, implementation costs and treatment
nature, scope, context and purpose as well as the risks, of varying nature
degree of probability and seriousness, for the rights and freedoms of natural persons shall
the personal data controller and the personal data assistant take appropriate measures
technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security
which is appropriate in relation to the risk (…). According to point 2 shall at
the assessment of the appropriate security level special consideration is given to the risks that
the processing entails, in particular from accidental or illegal destruction,
loss or alteration or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to
the personal data transferred, stored or otherwise processed.
Recital 75 states that when assessing the risk of natural persons
rights and freedoms, different factors must be taken into account. Among other things are mentioned
personal data subject to confidentiality, information about health or
sexual life, if there is processing of personal data concerning vulnerable physical
persons, especially children, or if the treatment involves a large number
personal data and applies to a large number of registered users.
Furthermore, it follows from reason 76 that how probable and serious the risk for it
Data subjects' rights and freedoms should be determined based on the processing
nature, scope, context and purpose. The risk should be evaluated on
basis of an objective assessment, through which it is determined whether
the data processing involves a risk or a high risk.
Recitals 39 and 83 also contain writings that provide guidance on it
closer to the meaning of the data protection regulation's requirements for security at
Processing of personal data.

Page 11 of 30

1 1 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

The Data Protection Regulation and the relationship with supplementary national
regulations
According to Article 5.1. a in the data protection regulation, the personal data must
processed in a legal manner. In order for the treatment to be considered legal, it is required
legal basis in that at least one of the conditions in Article 6.1 is met.
Provision of health care is one such task of generality
interest referred to in Article 6.1 e.
In healthcare, the legal bases can also be legal
obligation according to Article 6.1 c and exercise of authority according to Article 6.1 e
updated.
When it comes to the question of the legal bases legal obligation, generally
interest and the exercise of authority are given to the Member States, according to Article
6.2, retain or introduce more specific provisions to adapt
the application of the provisions of the Regulation to national conditions.
National law can further determine specific requirements for data processing
and other measures to ensure legal and fair treatment. But
there is not only a possibility to introduce national rules but also a
duty; Article 6.3 states that the basis for the processing referred to in
paragraph 1 c and e shall be determined in accordance with Union law or
national law of the Member States. The legal basis may also include
special provisions to adapt the application of the provisions of
data protection regulation. Union law or Member States' national law
right must fulfill an objective of public interest and be proportionate to it
legitimate goals pursued.
Article 9 states that treatment of special categories of
personal data (so-called sensitive personal data) is prohibited. Sensitive
personal data includes, among other things, information about health. Article 9.2 states
the exceptions where sensitive personal data may still be processed.
Article 9.2 h states that processing of sensitive personal data may take place if
the processing is necessary for reasons related to, among other things
provision of healthcare on the basis of Union law or
Member States' national law or according to agreements with professionals on
health area and provided that the conditions and safeguards which
referred to in point 3 are met. Article 9.3 requires regulated confidentiality.

Page 12 of 30

1 2 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

This means that both the legal bases public interest,
exercise of authority and legal obligation such as treatment of sensitive
personal data with the support of the exception in Article 9.2 h needs
supplementary rules.
Supplementary national regulations
For Swedish purposes, both the basis for the treatment and the
the special conditions for processing personal data within health and
healthcare regulated in the Patient Data Act (2008:355) and
the patient data regulation (2008:360). In ch. 1 Section 4 of the Patient Data Act states that
the law supplements the data protection regulation.
The purpose of the Patient Data Act is that information management within health and
healthcare must be organized so that it caters for patient safety and
good quality and promotes cost efficiency. Its purpose is also to
personal data must be designed and otherwise processed so that patients' and
the privacy of other data subjects is respected. In addition, must be documented
personal data is handled and stored so that unauthorized persons do not gain access
them (Chapter 1, Section 2 of the Patient Data Act).
The supplementary provisions in the Patient Data Act aim to
take care of both privacy protection and patient safety. The legislature has
thus, through the regulation, a balance has been made in terms of how
the information must be processed to meet both the requirements for patient safety
such as the right to personal integrity in the processing of personal data.
The National Board of Health and Welfare has issued regulations with the support of the patient data regulation
and general advice on record keeping and processing of personal data i
health care (HSLF-FS 2016:40). The regulations constitute such
supplementary rules, which must be applied when healthcare providers treat
personal data in healthcare, see ch. 1 Section 1 of the Patient Data Act.
National regulations that supplement the data protection regulation's requirements for
security can be found in chapters 4 and 6. the Patient Data Act and chs. 3 and 4 HSLF-FS
2016:40.
Requirement to carry out a needs and risk analysis

Page 13 of 30

1 3 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

The care provider must according to ch. 4. § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40 make a need-and
risk analysis, before assigning authorizations in the system takes place.
That an analysis of the needs as well as the risks is required is evident from the preparatory work
to the Patient Data Act, prop. 2007/08:126 pp. 148-149, as follows.
Authorization for the staff's electronic access to information about patients must be limited to
what the executive needs to be able to perform his duties in health and
healthcare. It includes, among other things, that authorizations must be followed up and changed or restricted accordingly
hand as changes in the individual executive's duties give rise to it.
The provision corresponds in principle to Section 8 of the Care Register Act. The purpose of the provision is to
inculcate the duty of the responsible health care provider to make active and individual
authorization assignments based on analyzes of which detailed information different
personnel categories and different types of operations need. But it is not only necessary
needs analyses. Risk analyzes must also be carried out where different types of risks are taken into account such as
may be associated with excessively wide availability regarding certain types of information.
Protected personal data marked confidential, information about publicly known persons,
data from certain clinics or medical specialties are examples of categories such as
may require special risk assessments.
Generally speaking, it can be said that the more extensive an information system is, the greater the quantity
different authorization levels there must be. Decisive for decisions on eligibility for e.g. various
categories of healthcare professionals to electronic access to records i
patient records should be that the authorization should be limited to what the executive needs
for the purpose of good and safe patient care. A more extensive or coarse meshed
assignment of authorization should - even if it would have points from an efficiency point of view - be considered as an unjustified dissemination of medical records within a business and as such should
not accepted.
Furthermore, data should be stored in different layers so that more sensitive data requires active choices or
otherwise are not as easily accessible to staff as less sensitive information. When it
applies to personnel who work with operational follow-up, statistical production, central
financial administration and similar activities that are not individual-oriented, probably
the majority of executives have access to information that can only be derived indirectly
to individual patients. Electronic access to code keys, social security numbers and others
information that directly points out individual patients should be able to be strong in this area
limited to single persons.

Internal confidentiality
The provisions in ch. 4 The Patient Data Act concerns internal confidentiality, i.e.
regulates how privacy protection must be handled within a healthcare provider's operations
and especially employees' opportunities to prepare for access to
personal data that is electronically available in a healthcare provider's
organisation.

Page 14 of 30

1 4 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

It appears from ch. 4. Section 2 of the Patient Data Act, that the healthcare provider must decide
conditions for granting authorization to access such information about
patients who are transported fully or partially automated. Such authorization shall
is limited to what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
tasks within health care.
Of ch. 4 § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40 follows that the care provider must be responsible for each
users are assigned an individual authorization for access to
personal data. The healthcare provider's decision on the allocation of authorization shall
preceded by a needs and risk analysis.
Coherent record keeping
The provisions in ch. 6 the Patient Data Act concerns coherent record keeping,
which means that a care provider - under the conditions stated in § 2 of the same
chapter of that law - may have direct access to personal data that is processed
by other healthcare providers for purposes related to healthcare documentation. Access to
information occurs through a healthcare provider making the information about a patient
which the healthcare provider registers about the patient available to other healthcare providers
who participate in the integrated record keeping system (see prop. 2007/08:126
p. 247).
Of ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act follows that the regulations in ch. 4 Sections 2 and 3 also apply to authorization assignment and access control in the event of a joint operation
record keeping. The requirement that the healthcare provider carry out a needs and risk analysis
before the assignment of authorizations in the system takes place, thus also applies in systems
for consistent record keeping.
Documentation of access (logs)
Of ch. 4 Section 3 of the Patient Data Act states that a healthcare provider must ensure that
access to such patient data that is held in whole or in part
automatically documented and systematically checked.
According to ch. 4 § 9 HSLF-FS 2016:40 the care provider must be responsible for
1. it is clear from the documentation of the access (logs) which
actions taken with data about a patient;
2. the logs show which care unit or care process
the measures have been taken,
3. it is clear from the logs at which time the measures were taken,
4. the identity of the user and the patient can be seen in the logs.

Page 15 of 30

1 5 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

The Swedish Data Protection Authority's assessment
Personal data controller's responsibility for security
As previously described, it is stated in article 24.1 of the data protection regulation one
general requirement for the personal data controller to take appropriate technical
and organizational measures. The requirement partly aims to ensure that
the processing of the personal data is carried out in accordance with
the data protection regulation, partly that the person in charge of personal data must be able to
show that the processing of the personal data is carried out in accordance with
data protection regulation.
The security in connection with the treatment is regulated more specifically in the articles
5.1 f and 32 of the data protection regulation.
Article 32.1 states that the appropriate measures must be both technical and
organizational and they must ensure a level of security that is appropriate in
relation to the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons which
the treatment entails. It is therefore necessary to identify the possible ones
the risks to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects and assesses
the likelihood of the risks occurring and the severity if they occur.
What is appropriate varies not only in relation to the risks but also
based on the nature, scope, context and purpose of the treatment. It has
thus meaning what kind of personal data is processed, how many
data, the question is, how many people process the data, etc.
Health care has a great need for information in its operations.
It is therefore natural that the possibilities of digitization are taken advantage of so much
as possible in healthcare. Since the Patient Data Act was written, one has a lot
extensive digitization has taken place in healthcare. As well as the data collections
size as how many people share information with each other has increased
substantially. This increase means at the same time that the demands on it increase
personal data controller, because the assessment of what is an appropriate
safety is affected by the extent of processing.
It is also a matter of sensitive personal data and the data concerned
people who are in a dependent situation when they are in need of care.
It is also often a question of a lot of personal data about each of these
persons and that the data may over time be processed by very

Page 16 of 30

1 6 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

many people in healthcare. All in all, this places great demands on it
personal data controller.
The data that is processed must be protected against external actors as well
the business as against unauthorized access from within the business. It can
it is noted that in article 32.2 it is stated that the person in charge of personal data, at
assessment of the appropriate security level, in particular must take into account the risks of
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or unauthorized disclosure or
unauthorized access. In order to know what is an unauthorized access must
the personal data controller is clear about what constitutes an authorized access.
Needs and risk analysis
In ch. 4 § 2 The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations (HSLF-FS 2016:40), which supplement
the patient data act, it is stated that the care provider must make a needs assessment
risk analysis before assigning authorizations in the system takes place. This means that
national law prescribes requirements for an appropriate organizational measure that shall
is taken before assigning authorizations to the record system takes place.
A needs and risk analysis must partly contain an analysis of the needs, partly a
analysis of the risks based on an integrity perspective that may be associated
with an excessively wide allocation of authorization for access to personal data
about patients. Both the needs and the risks must be assessed based on them
information that needs to be processed in the business, what processes it is
the question of whether and what risks exist for the individual's privacy.
The assessments of the risks need to take place based on organizational level, there
for example, a certain part of the business or task may be more
more sensitive to privacy than another, but also based on the individual level, if that is the case
the question of special circumstances that need to be taken into account, such as for example
that it is a matter of protected personal data, generally known persons or
otherwise particularly vulnerable persons. The size of the system also affects
the risk assessment. It appears from the preparatory work for the Patient Data Act that the more
comprehensive an information system is, the greater the variety
authorization levels must exist (prop. 2007/08:126 p. 149). It is thus
the question of a strategic analysis at a strategic level, which should provide a
authority structure that is adapted to the business and this must be maintained
updated.
In summary, the regulation requires that the risk analysis identifies


different categories of data,

Page 17 of 30

1 7 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844



categories of data subjects (for example, vulnerable natural persons and
children), or



the extent (for example, the number of personal data and registered)



negative consequences for data subjects (e.g. damages,
significant social or economic disadvantage, deprivation of rights
and freedoms),

and how they affect the risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons at
Processing of personal data. This also applies to internal confidentiality
as with coherent record keeping.
The risk analysis must also include special risk assessments, for example
based on whether there are protected personal data that are
classified as confidential, information about publicly known people, information from
certain receptions or medical specialties (prop. 2007/08:126 p. 148149).
The risk analysis must also include an assessment of how likely and how serious
the risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects is based on
the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing (reason 76).
It is thus through the needs and risk analysis that it
data controller finds out who needs access, which
data the access possibility must include, at which times and in which
context the access is needed, and at the same time analyzes the risks to it
individual freedoms and rights that the processing may lead to. The result shall
then lead to the technical and organizational measures needed to
ensure that no other access than that which is necessary and
the risk analysis shows is justified should be able to take place.
When a needs and risk analysis is missing prior to granting authorization i
system, there is no basis for the personal data controller on a legal basis
way must be able to assign their users a correct authorization. The
personal data controller is responsible for, and must have control over, it
personal data processing that takes place within the scope of the business. To
assign users a case of access to the record system, without this being established
on a performed needs and risk analysis, means that the personal data controller
does not have sufficient control over the personal data processing that takes place in

Page 18 of 30

1 8 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

the record system and also cannot show that he has the control that
is required.
Aleris has stated that the authorizations are assigned based on the document, "Needs and risk analysis - TakeCare". The document shows that all
authorization profiles other than technicians have been assigned read authorization in the system,
and that the risk with limited access is that the user cannot perform their tasks
duties in full. This justification is stated for all users.
Furthermore, it is stated that the only risk with extensive access is that the user
sees information that he/she does not have the right to see, which may involve disclosure
of patient information. Similar justification is given for all profiles. The
means that Aleris makes the same assessment for all profiles regardless
the user's task and needs.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the document, "Needs and risk analysis TakeCare" does not contain any analysis of the different profiles' needs for
access to patients' data. Aleris has only stated what respectively
profile "must be able to perform" in the journal system and therefore not analyzed which one
information that it is a question of or how the needs look like in the different
the operational parts and for different professional roles. The document also lacks one
analysis of the risks to the individual's freedoms and rights as too broad
authorization may entail. The needs and risk analysis must take place on a strategic basis
level that should provide an authorization structure that is adapted to the business.
The information in the document "Need and risk analysis - TakeCare" is too much
deficient in relation to the information required for a correct
needs and risk analysis must be able to be carried out. As stated above shall in a
needs and risk analysis, both the needs and the risks are assessed based on them
information that needs to be processed in the business, what processes it is
the question of and which risks to the individual's integrity exist both on
organizational as well as individual level.
In its analysis, Aleris has not considered how negative consequences for
data subjects, different categories of data, categories of data subjects or
the extent of the number of personal data and data subjects affects the risk of
the rights and freedoms of natural persons in Aleri's processing of
personal data in TakeCare. There are also no special risk assessments
based on whether there is, for example, protected personal data that is
classified as confidential, information about publicly known people, information from

Page 19 of 30

1 9 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

certain practices or medical specialties or other factors such as
require special protective measures. There is also no assessment of how
probable and serious risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects
deemed to be.
In light of the above, the Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that
the document "Needs and risk analysis - TakeCare" does not meet the requirements that
is based on a needs and risk analysis and that Aleris has not been able to demonstrate that
the company has carried out a needs and risk analysis in the sense referred to in 4
Cape. § 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40, whether within the framework of internal confidentiality
according to ch. 4 the Patient Data Act or within the framework of the consolidated
record keeping according to ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act. This means that Aleris does not
has taken appropriate organizational measures in accordance with Article 5.1 f and
article 32.1 and 32.2 in order to ensure and, in accordance with article 5.2,
be able to demonstrate that the processing of the personal data has a security which is
appropriate in relation to the risks.
Authorization assignment regarding access to personal data about patients
As has been reported above, a care provider may have a legitimate interest in having
a comprehensive processing of information about the health of individuals. Regardless of this shall
access possibilities to personal data about patients be limited to
what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill his duties.
Regarding the assignment of authorization for electronic access according to ch. 4.
§ 2 and ch. 6 Section 7 of the Patient Data Act, it appears from the preliminary works, prop.
2007/08:126 pp. 148-149, i.a. that there must be different authorization categories in
the journal system and that the authorizations must be limited to what the user
need to provide the patient with good and safe care. It also appears that "one
more expansive or coarse-grained authority assignment should be considered a
unjustified dissemination of medical records within a business and should as
such is not accepted.”
In healthcare, it is the person who needs the data in their work
who may be authorized to access them. This applies both within a
caregivers as between caregivers. It is, as already mentioned, through
the needs and risk analysis that the personal data controller finds out about whom
who needs access, which data the access should cover, at which
times and in which contexts the access is needed, and at the same time
analyzes which risks to the individual's freedoms and rights are

Page 20 of 30

2 0 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

the treatment can lead to. The result should then lead to the technical and
organizational measures needed to ensure that no allocation
of authorization provides further access possibilities than the one that needs and
the risk analysis shows is justified. An important organizational action is to give
instructions to those who have the authority to assign permissions on how to do this
should go to and what should be taken into account so that, with the needs and risk analysis
as a basis, will be a correct authorization assignment in each individual case.
Aleris has stated that there are limitations regarding the users
access possibilities in TakeCare then the company by choosing different functions
for different users can control the access possibilities of the users i
the journal system.
According to Aleris, all users have different read permissions in the journal system
depending on which system functions they have access to. Of the document
"Needs and risk analysis - TakeCare" shows, however, that all professional profiles
except technicians have been assigned read access to the data in TakeCare.
Furthermore, it appears from the document "Profiles and Rights" that all
professional profiles, i.e. doctors, nurses, assistant nurses, paramedics,
secretary, administrative, student and receptionist Rehab has
authorization to "read journal text". This means that pretty much all professional profiles
has access to Aleri's personal data about patients in TakeCare. The
limitation that has been introduced is that different professional profiles have different
read permissions, for example doctors, nurses, paramedics can “read
diagnoses" or "reading prescriptions" while other professional profiles, for example
"administrative" does not have those permissions. It also appears that doctors are
the only ones authorized to "read emergency information".
The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers it positive that Aleris has assigned various
read permissions in the system, but that it is not enough because all
professional profiles still have access to the journal texts in TakeCare.
In addition, the division is rough as it is only a division from the outside
professional categories and not based on, for example, which organizational
affiliation, which tasks the user has or which patients
personal data that the user needs to have access to at different times
to. Because different users have different tasks within different
work areas, need users' access to personal data about
patients in TakeCare are limited to reflect this.

Page 21 of 30

2 1 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

Against this background, the Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that Aleris does not have
limited user permissions for access to patients
personal data in the TakeCare record system. This in turn means that a
majority of users have had actual access to the care documentation
about a large number of patients in TakeCare.
The review also shows that Aleris uses so-called active elections
for access to personal data about patients as well as the record filter function.
The fact that Aleris uses active choices does not mean that the possibility of access to
personal data in the system has been restricted for the user, without the data
are still electronically accessible. This means that the active choices are not
such an access restriction as referred to in ch. 4. Section 2 of the Patient Data Act,
as this provision requires the authority to be limited to what
which is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill his duties within
healthcare and that only those who need the information should have it
access. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore considers that Aleri's use of active choices
is an integrity-enhancing measure but that it does not affect the actual
the access possibilities.
Aleris has further stated that there are functions in TakeCare to a
care providers must be able to "isolate" a care unit and thereby "close out"
other healthcare providers and healthcare units' access possibilities to the unit's
care documentation, so-called protected units. However, Aleris believes that
the company does not conduct any business that requires protected devices and
have therefore not used this function.
As far as the coherent record keeping is concerned, all users at Aleris have
access to all personal data about patients of the other care providers i
TakeCare, except when the patients have requested to have their data blocked.
It appears from the review that the care provider has an opportunity to actively
block other people's care providers' records, but that Aleris chose not to do so
because the company does not conduct any business that needs to be blocked. Aleris
believes that it is safer for patients to leave the data at Aleri's units
available to other healthcare providers.
That the assignment of authorizations has not been preceded by a need-and
risk analysis means that Aleris has not analyzed the users' needs for
access to the data, the risks that this access may entail and

Page 22 of 30

2 2 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

thus also not identifying which access is authorized for the users
based on such an analysis. Aleris has thus not used suitable ones
measures, in accordance with Article 32, to restrict users' access to
the patients' data in the record system. This, in turn, has meant that
there was a risk of unauthorized access and unauthorized dissemination of
personal data partly within the framework of internal confidentiality, partly within the framework
for the coherent record keeping.
Aleris has further stated that the company has no technical possibilities to
make changes to TakeCare as Aleris has no control over
the journal system. It also appears that Aleris, within the framework of the
cohesive record keeping, may not implement certain limitations
with reference to decisions from Region Stockholm.
The basis of the data protection regulation is that the person in charge of personal data
has a responsibility to comply with the obligations set out in the regulation in order to
at all be allowed to process personal data in their operations. To take
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a suitable
security is such an obligation (see Articles 5, 24 and 32 i
data protection regulation). The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore considers that Aleris i
attribute of personal data controller cannot disclaim responsibility for
take the technical and organizational measures required according to the aforementioned
articles.
In light of the above, the Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that Aleris
has processed personal data in violation of Article 5.1 f and Article 32.1 and
32.2 of the data protection regulation in that Aleris has not limited
users' authorizations for access to the TakeCare records system to what
which is only needed for the user to be able to fulfill their
duties within health and medical care according to ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7
the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40. This means that Aleris does not
has taken measures to be able to ensure and, in accordance with Article 5.2 i
data protection regulation, be able to demonstrate a suitable security for
the personal data.
Documentation of access (logs)
Of the documentation of access (logs) that arose due to
The Data Inspectorate's review shows the following: date, time,
the identity of the user and the patient, what measures have been taken and

Page 23 of 30

2 3 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

care unit. The same documentation appears when the user takes part
data within the framework of coherent record keeping.
Datainspektionen has nothing to recall in this part, because
the documentation of the access (logs) in TakeCare is in compliance
with the requirements that appear in ch. 4. Section 9 HSLF-FS 2016:40. Aleris has thus
taken appropriate technical measures in accordance with Article 32 i
data protection regulation.
Choice of intervention
Legal regulation
If there has been a breach of the data protection regulation has
Datainspektionen a number of corrective powers to be available according to article
58.2 a-j of the data protection regulation. The supervisory authority can, among other things
order the personal data controller to ensure that the processing takes place in
in accordance with the regulation and if required in a specific manner and within a
specific period.
It follows from Article 58.2 of the Data Protection Ordinance that the Data Inspectorate i
pursuant to Article 83 shall impose penalty charges in addition to or instead of
other corrective measures referred to in Article 58(2), depending
the circumstances of each individual case.
Article 83(2) sets out the factors to be taken into account in deciding whether a
administrative penalty fee shall be imposed, but also what shall affect
the amount of the penalty fee. Of central importance for the assessment of
the seriousness of the breach is its nature, severity and duration. If
it is a question of whether a minor violation gets the supervisory authority, according to reason
148 of the Data Protection Regulation, issue a reprimand instead of imposing one
penalty fee.
Order
Health care has a great need for information in its operations. The
it is therefore natural that the possibilities of digitization are utilized as much as possible
possible in healthcare. Since the Patient Data Act was written, one has a lot
extensive digitization has taken place in healthcare. As well as the data collections
size as how many people share information with each other has increased
substantially. This increase means at the same time that the demands on it increase

Page 24 of 30

2 4 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

personal data controller, because the assessment of what is an appropriate
safety is affected by the extent of processing.
In this context, it means that a great responsibility rests on it
personal data controller to protect the data from unauthorized access,
among other things by having an authorization assignment that is even more
finely divided. It is therefore essential that there is a real analysis of the needs
based on different businesses and different executives. Equally important is that
there is an actual analysis of the risks based on an integrity perspective
can occur in the event of an excessive assignment of authorization to access. From
access to this analysis must then be limited to the individual executive.
This authorization must then be followed up and changed or restricted accordingly
hand that changes in the individual executive's duties provide
reason for it.
The Data Inspectorate's supervision has shown that Aleris has failed to take appropriate measures
security measures to protect the personal data in the records system
TakeCare by not complying with the requirements set out in the Patient Data Act and
The National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations regarding implementation of need-and
risk analysis, before assigning authorizations in the system takes place and that not
limit the authorization for access to what is necessary for the individual
must be able to fulfill their duties within health care. The
means that Aleris has also failed to comply with the requirements in Article 5.1 f and Article
32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation. The omission includes both
internal secrecy according to ch. 4 the Patient Data Act as the consolidated
record keeping according to ch. 6 the patient data act.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore orders with the support of Article 58.2 d i
data protection regulation Aleris Sjukvård AB to implement and document
required needs and risk analysis for the TakeCare records system and that
then, based on the needs and risk analysis, assign each user
individual authorization for access to personal data which is limited to
only what is needed for the individual to be able to fulfill their duties
tasks within the health and medical care, in accordance with article 5.1 f and
article 32.1 and 32.2 of the data protection regulation, ch. 4 § 2 and ch. 6 Section 7
the Patient Data Act and ch. 4 Section 2 HSLF-FS 2016:40.
Penalty fee

Page 25 of 30

2 5 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

The Swedish Data Protection Authority can state that the violations basically relate to Aleris
obligation to take appropriate security measures to provide protection to
personal data according to the data protection regulation.
In this case, it is a matter of large collections of sensitive data
personal data and extensive permissions. The caregiver needs to
necessity to have extensive processing of information about individuals' health.
However, it must not be unrestricted, but must be based on what individuals do
employees need to be able to perform their tasks. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
states that it is a matter of data that includes direct identification
of the individual through both name, contact details and social security number,
information about health, but it can also be about other private information about
for example, family relationships, sex life and lifestyle. The patient is addicted
of receiving care and is thus in a vulnerable situation. The nature of the data,
extent and the patients' dependency status give care providers a special
responsibility to ensure patients' right to adequate protection for their
personal data.
Further aggravating circumstances are that the treatment of
personal data about patients in the main record system is at the core of a
care provider's activities, that the treatment includes many patients and
the possibility of access concerns a large percentage of the employees. In this case pipes
there are nearly 800,000 patients and just over 1,000 active users in
the journal system.
It is a central task for the personal data controller to take measures
to ensure an appropriate level of security in relation to the risk. At
the assessment of the appropriate security level must take special account of the risks
which the processing entails, in particular from accidental or unlawful destruction,
loss or alteration or to unauthorized disclosure of or unauthorized access to
the personal data transferred, stored or otherwise processed,
according to article 32.2 of the data protection regulation. The requirements for health and
the healthcare area, currently applicable security measures, have been specified in
the Patient Data Act and regulations in the National Board of Health and Welfare. Of the preparatory work to
The Patient Data Act clearly states that requirements are placed on strategic analysis as well as
that authority allocation takes place individually and is adapted to the current one
the situation. That large amounts of sensitive personal data are processed without
basic regulations in the area are followed means that the procedure is assessed as
more serious.

Page 26 of 30

2 6 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

The Swedish Data Protection Authority also takes into account that Aleris has not chosen to restrict
the access within the framework of the coherent record keeping. According to Aleris
is it safer for patients to leave the data at Aleri's units
available to other healthcare providers. This means that Aleris has prioritized away
privacy protection within the coherent record keeping for the benefit of
patient safety, which is particularly serious.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority has also taken into account that Aleris has used certain
privacy-enhancing measures, carried out certain restrictions regarding
the professional categories' reading authorization as well as documented access on one
correct way.
When determining the seriousness of the violations, it can also be established that
the violations also include the fundamental principles of Article 5 i
the data protection regulation, which belongs to the categories of more serious
Violations that may result in a higher penalty fee according to Article 83.5 i
data protection regulation.
These factors together mean that the violations, not to implement
a needs and risk analysis and not to limit user permissions
to only what is needed for the user to be able to fulfill their
duties within the health care, are not to be assessed as minor
violations without violations that shall lead to an administrative
penalty fee.
The Swedish Data Protection Authority believes that these violations are closely related to
each other. That assessment is based on the fact that the needs and risk analysis must
form the basis for the assignment of the authorizations. The Swedish Data Protection Authority
therefore considers that these violations are so closely related to each other
that they constitute connected data processing according to Article 83.3 i
data protection regulation. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore determines a joint
penalty fee for these violations.
According to Article 83.3, the administrative sanction fee may not exceed
the amount of the most serious violation if it is one or the same
data processing or connected data processing.
The administrative penalty fee must be effective, proportionate and
deterrent. This means that the amount must be determined so that it

Page 27 of 30

2 7 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

the administrative sanction fee leads to correction, that it provides a preventive measure
effect and that it is also proportionate in relation to current as well
violations as to the solvency of the subject of supervision.
As regards calculation of the amount, Article 83.5 i
data protection regulation that companies that commit violations such as those in question
may be subject to penalty fees of up to twenty million EUR or four
percentage of the total global annual turnover in the previous financial year,
depending on which value is the highest.
The term company includes all companies that conduct an economic
business, regardless of the entity's legal status or the manner in which it
be financed. A company can therefore consist of an individual company in the sentence one
legal person, but also by several natural persons or companies. Thus
there are situations where an entire group is treated as a company and its
total annual turnover shall be used to calculate the amount of a
breach of the Data Protection Regulation by one of its companies.
From consideration reason 150 in the data protection regulation appears, among other things
following. […] If the administrative penalty charges are imposed on a company,
should a company for this purpose be deemed to be a company within the meaning of
Articles 101 and 102 of the TFEU[…]. This means that the assessment of
what constitutes a company must be based on the definitions of competition law.
The rules for group liability in EU competition law revolve around
the concept of economic unity. A parent company and a subsidiary company are considered
as part of the same economic entity when the parent company exercises one
decisive influence over the subsidiary. The Swedish Data Protection Authority therefore puts
as a starting point the turnover for Aleris Group AB as a basis for
the calculation of the amount of the penalty fee.
Aleris Group AB was formed at the end of 2019. Some turnover figures for the whole
2019 is therefore not available. There is therefore no information on the annual
turnover for determining the size of the penalty fee. Aleris has
stated that the group turnover for Aleris Group AB amounted to just over 1.2
SEK billion between 1 October 2019 and 31 December 2019.
Converted for a full year, it would correspond to a turnover of approximately 4.9
billion kroner.

Page 28 of 30

2 8 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

The Swedish Data Protection Authority notes that the actual annual turnover for Aleris
Group AB this year will be significantly higher.
In the current case, the Data Protection Authority applies a precautionary principle and
therefore estimates that the company's annual turnover at least corresponds to that of
the period October – December 2019 recalculated for a full year, i.e. approximately 4.9
billion kroner. The highest sanction amount that can be established in current
case is EUR 20,000,000, which is roughly four percent of the company's estimate
revenue.
In light of the seriousness of the violations and that the administrative
the penalty fee must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive
the Data Inspectorate determines the administrative penalty fee for
Aleris Sjukvård AB to SEK 15,000,000 (fifteen million).

This decision has been made by the director general Lena Lindgren Schelin after
presentation by IT security specialist Magnus Bergström. At the final
Chief legal officer Hans-Olof Lindblom, the unit managers are also involved in the handling
Katarina Tullstedt and Malin Blixt and the lawyer Linda Hamidi participated.

Lena Lindgren Schelin, 2020-12-02 (This is an electronic signature)

Appendix
How to pay penalty fee
Copy for information
The data protection officer

Page 29 of 30

2 9 (30)

The Swedish Data Protection Authority

DI-2019-3844

How to appeal
If you want to appeal the decision, you must write to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. Enter in
the letter which decision you are appealing and the change you are requesting.
The appeal must have been received by the Swedish Data Protection Authority no later than three weeks from
the day you were informed of the decision. If the appeal has been received in time
the Swedish Data Protection Authority forwards it to the Administrative Court in Stockholm for
examination.
You can e-mail the appeal to the Swedish Data Protection Authority if it does not contain
any privacy-sensitive personal data or information that may be covered by
secrecy. The authority's contact details appear on the first page of the decision.

Page 30 of 30

3 0 (30)

