  Wednesday, September 4th, 2019 2: Press Releases Summer Academy “Focus on Consumers” – there is a lot to do! On Monday, September 9, 2019, the data protection summer academy on the topic "Focus on consumers" will take place in Kiel. Experts from all over Germany will discuss current developments in consumer protection and data protection. More and more consumers are being caught in the crosshairs of algorithms for analyzing their behavior and emotions - on the one hand to offer them products and services that are individually tailored to them, but on the other hand it is also becoming clear that this can also have an unnoticed influence on users. In many cases, you don't even know what kind of data is being collected about you, what categories you're being put into and what decisions are being made as a result. Providers can, for example, use this database to design the prices and contract terms differently for individuals or groups of people without this being understandable. However, more transparency would be necessary in order to be able to take action against inadmissible discrimination. Marit Hansen, Schleswig-Holstein State Commissioner for Data Protection, is looking forward to the lectures and impulses: "The Minister of Justice responsible for consumer protection, Dr. Sütterlin-Waack will take a close look at "influencer marketing" - this shows that information and advertising are not always easy to distinguish. Digitization Minister Jan Philipp Albrecht will focus on the digital sovereignty of users. This is a major challenge given today's reality, in which the design of online applications is often data-hungry and manipulative. Together with the other speakers, we plead for a fair design of the products and services, with which the consumers are taken seriously instead of being tricked.” That this is possible is shown by Christian Thorun, ConPolicy GbmH, with criteria for responsible corporate action, and Christian Buggedei, Darcy.is, with a no-advertisement social media appeal. The civil rights activist Katharina Nocun will point out where there are still problems. She herself repeatedly tries to exercise her data protection right to information and encounters difficulties in practice. Jutta Gurkmann from the Verbraucherzentrale Bundesverband e.V. describes the solidarity with consumer protection. After the impulses in the morning program, practical topics from consumer protection and data protection are presented. The panel discussion “Lighthouses – or fairway buoys? - for practical data protection in Schleswig-Holstein" with Marit Hansen and members of the Schleswig-Holstein state parliament. Framework data: Summer Academy 2019 "Focus on Consumers"
on September 9, 2019 at the ATLANTIC Hotel in Kiel Start: 9.00 a.m. The program of the Summer Academy 2019 and the possibility to register can be found here: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/sommerakademie/2019/ Representatives of the press will attend the event. Registration is required. The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein is available for press conferences between 1.30 p.m. and 3.30 p.m. In this case, please contact sommerakademie-presse@datenschutzzentrum.de. If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: dsa, news, press releases, events, consumersArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure