 
 

Resolution of the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

Federal and state governments of April 29, 2021

 
 

Use the opportunities of the Corona-Warn-App 2.0

 

The conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and

Countries (DSK) recalled in view of the ongoing for more than a year

Pandemic and the associated basic

legal interventions to the basic requirement of the rule of law to continue these interventions

to be critically assessed and evaluated on an ongoing basis. The DSK asks in the course of such

Evaluation and adaptation of infection protection instruments by the federal government and

Countries that opened with version 2.0 of the Corona-Warn-App (CWA)

more options for pseudonymised cluster detection and contact notification

to be checked thoroughly and promptly for correctness.

The DSK recommends that the federal states use the CWA as a supplementary option.

ability to notify potentially infected people and to identify clusters

must be taken into account in their concepts for combating the pandemic.

Since the update to version 2.0, the CWA has had a corresponding radio

tion that can be used to gather at places or events where many people

come together to register. Even if here - unlike other

ren apps – no personal data collected and later sent to a health

office can be transmitted, the pseudonymised cluster detection of the

CWA make a significant contribution to breaking chains of infection.

Through the direct networking of CWA users, people who

were exposed to the potential risk of infection, immediately and therefore faster than

informed about the health authorities. In addition, due to the high acceptance of the

CWA with more than 27 million downloads, there is a high probability that

persons to this possibility, which is preferable from a data protection point of view-

resort to pseudonymous digital registration.

Promoting the use of the CWA for cluster detection could result in

the app would be used by even more people. This in turn would also

the chance of detection and warning of risky encounters outside the

further increase the detection of clusters and thus actively fight the pandemic

contribute.

