                                                                   
                                                   

PRESS RELEASE

the Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities

of the federal and state governments of April 30, 2021

 
 

 

101st Data Protection Conference - Data protection when using digital services for

contact tracing

 

The 101st Conference of Independent Federal Data Protection Authorities

and the countries (DSK) met on April 28th and 29th, 2021 as a video conference under the

Chairman of the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information of the Saarland

des, Monika Grethel.

A central topic of the conference was the use of digital contact tracing

flow systems. As far as the federal states catering establishments, cultural institutions

and other bodies by regulation on the processing of contact and presence

security data of visitors, customers and guests, offer medium-

while a large number of providers offer digital contact tracing services. Therefore

the DSK has the data protection requirements for such systems and their

operation in the "Orientation Aid" aimed at developers and those responsible

the DSK on the use of digital services for contact tracing on the occasion

of event, facility, restaurant and business visits to prevent

changing the spread of Covid-19”.

The DSK emphasizes that in the interaction between the service provider, the contact

agency obligated to collect data and the health department the spheres of the respective

responsibility under data protection law must be clearly delimited and

a strict earmarking applies to the personal data processed in this way.

The risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, which is reflected in its scale

and sensitivity of data processed as part of contact tracing

results, the service provider must also take sufficient measures to ensure data security

meet safety.

Since the majority of the federal states have now decided to

enter into agreements with the provider of the “Luca” service

DSK in addition to the first preliminary assessment of March 26, 2021 again with this

concerned with this system. In her statement, she points out that despite a dem

Based on the viable conception of the Luca system, further technical protection

measures to prevent any resulting from improper use

 

 


 

                                                                   
                                                   

risks are considered necessary. The conference also emphasizes that there is no

Compulsory use of digital contact tracking systems.

In view of the recent functional expansion of the Corona-Warn-App (CWA)

raises the DSK in the resolution "Use the opportunities of the Corona-Warn-App 2.0".

the use of the CWA associated data-saving possibilities of clustering

identification and contact notification and appeals to countries that use CWA

into their concepts for combating pandemics and to promote their use

other

Against the background of the increasing use of messenger services in

health sector, the statement "Technical Data Protection

requirements for messenger services in the hospital sector”** passed. With a view

on the sensitivity of the data affected in the health sector and their special

the need for protection, the statement sets out the data protection requirements

ments to those responsible for the selection of suitable messenger services for

exchange of patient-related information.

In addition, the DSK has published the joint document “Requirements for data

protection law certification programs"* adopted, which is part of the

Evaluation and examination of corresponding certification programs as a basis for

uniform application by the data protection supervisory authorities.

 

Further information on the data protection conference:

www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de

 

Contact:

Independent Data Protection Center Saarland

Fritz-Dobisch-Strasse 12

66111 Saarbrucken

Email: medien@datenschutz.saarland.de

                                                           

* Publication after editorial revision

 

 

