THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for Data Protection
and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

October 27, 2021

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

 With the right attitude to success

 
"Video conferencing systems - Notes on the practical
Utilization” – New handout from the state commissioner
with an overview of common software for
video conferencing
 

are video conferencing

commonplace for many people

become. Flexible working – from home and in the office –

is common practice in companies, authorities and

many more facilities. Artists organize theirs

Conferences and meetings online as well as clubs,

companies and offices.

 

Video conferencing systems are there for people to

a greater distance by image and sound with each other

to be able to communicate. One trip or the other

Meetings will continue to function even after the pandemic

possibly superfluous - this can save time and money,

and protects the climate.

 

In practice, however, the practical idea turns out to be simple

and connect quickly online as something

more complicated: How to set up a video conferencing system for

own purposes? What tool is for that

suitable, which one is more suitable? What about the settings

of the software? Where do they fit?

legal

Framework conditions and where still needs to be reworked

will?

 

The new handout provides answers to these and other questions

of the state representative Dr. Stefan Brink practical tips. In

In an overview, the LfDI lists in the handout what

things to watch out for when using a video conferencing system –

data protection and technical. At the same time he gives hints

to common video conferencing systems. This handout

with a clear table is now available for download on the

Homepage of the state commissioner ready.

 

The LfDI can certainly not provide any detailed information

all possible configurations and contract designs

give – but help to find his system and

set up. Because the right software setting can

often already crucial help, data protection law

to reduce risks. And of course there is some use

in more detail about the right provider for your own

Purposes and thinking about the right configuration too

make. Participants in video conferences can

then rather rest assured that they are at a safe place

Attend meeting, and companies have their technical

Infrastructure better under control.

 

Landing officer Stefan Brink: “We support them

Citizens, but also companies and

Authorities in their desire for faster and more reliable

Communication.

video conferencing

are

today

has become a matter of course - including their data protection compliance

Use should be a matter of course. We give

Those responsible have very practical tips to hand, so that

you

use their systems better and in a future-oriented manner

be able."

 

The handout is not intended as a final compendium

created, it should be continuously further developed.

Notes on video conferencing systems, changing their

legal and technical terms of use and also

the state representative takes critical, additional information

welcome.

 

Further information:

The manual "Video conferencing systems - Notes on

practical use” including the tabular overview

it on the website of the state representative:

https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/videokonferenzsysteme

 

Straight to

tabular overview: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/vks/

 

The manual "Video conferencing systems - Notes on

practical use" is also the subject of the current LfDI

podcast

"Data freedom!", the

online since today

is:

https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/datenfreiheit/

