—

AUTORITEIT
PERSOON SG EG EVEN S

Autoriteit Persoonsgegevens
Postbus 93374,2509 Aj Den Haag
Bezuidenhoutseweg3o, 2594 AV Den Haag
1070 8888 500 F 070 8888 501
autoriteitpersonnsgegevensnI
-

LZZZI

Datum

Ons kenmerk

4juli2019

Uw brief van

z2019-12067

15mei2019

Contactpersoon
0708888500

Onderwerp
Besluit op Wob verzoek

Geachte heer
Bij briefvan 15 mei 2019, ingekomen op ;6 mei 2019, heeft u verzocht op
grond van de Wet openbaarheid
van bestuur (hierna: de Wob) om openbaarmaking van de questionnaire en
de daarop ontvangen
antwoorden van het Ministerie van Financiën, die is opgesteld in het kader
van de “Guidelines for Member
States on the criteria to ensure compliance with data protection requirements
in the context of the
automatic exchange ofpersonal data for tax purposes” aangenomen op i6 decem
ber 2015, opgesteld door
de Article 29 Data Protecifon Working Party (WP29).
Op 6

Ufl 2019

bent u geïnformeerd omtrent de stand van zaken van uw Wob -verzoek.

Inventatisatie van documenten
Uw verzoek ziet op twee documenten. Op basis van uw verzoek is één docum
ent aangetroffen, nu bij
inventarisatie is gebleken dat de questionnaire en de antwoorden van het
Ministerie van Financiën zich in
één document bevinden.
Zienswijzen
De AF heeft geconstateerd dat er derde belanghebbenden zijn die mogeli
jk bedenkingen hebben bij de
openbaarmaking van documenten die onder de reikwijdte van uw verzoe
k vallen. Deze belanghebbenden
zijn op 4U 2019 in de gelegenheid gesteld hierover een zienswijze te geven.
Deze zienswijzen heeft de
AP, voor zover van toepassing, in de belangenafweging meegenomen.
1

https://ec.uropa.eu/newsroom/articIe29/item-deta iI.cfm?ftem_id=64O4

Bijlage(n) 1.
-

AUTORITEIT
PERSOONSGEGEVENS

-4

4

Datum
4Ju!

2019

Ons kenmerk
z2019-12067

Beoordelingskader
Op grond van artikel 3 van de Wob kan een ieder een verzoek om inform
atie, neergelegd in documenten
over een bestuurlijke aangelegenheid, richten tot een bestuursorgaan.
Artikel 3, vijfde lid, van de Wob
bepaalt dat een verzoek om informatie wordt ingewilligd met inachtn
eming van het bepaalde in de
artikelen 10 en ii van deze wet. De gevraagde informatie wordt niet verstre
kt wanneer zich één ofmeer
uitzonderingen ofbeperitingen voordoen als vermeld in de artikel
en 10 en 11 van de Wob.
Besluit
De AP is van mening dat zich ten aanzien van de door u verzochte docum
enten geen uitzonderingen of
beperkingen voordoen, die openbaarmaking daarvan zouden beperk
en. De AP heeft besloten te voldoen
aan uw verzoek tot openbaarmaking door toezending van de questionnaire
en de daarop ontvangen
antwoorden van het Ministerie van Financiën, nu deze zich in één docum
ent bevinden. De AP wijst er ten
overvloede op dat de hiervoor genoemde questionnaire reeds openba
ar gemaakt is als Annex bij de bier
bovengenoemde guidelines, te raadplegen in de link in de voetnoot.

Een afschrift van dit besluit zendt de AP aan de belanghebbenden.

Hoogachtend,
Autoriteit Persoonsgevens,
Namens deze,

eior Adviseur Staftaken
Rechtsmiddelenclausule
indien u het niet eens bent met dit besluit kunt u binnen zes weken na de datum
van verzending van het besluit ingevolge de
Algemene wet bestuursrecht een bezwaarschnft indienen hij de Autoriteit Persoo
nsgegevens, Postbus93374, 2509 AjDen
Haag. onder vermelding van “Awb-bezwaar” op de envelop. Het indienen van
een berwaarschnfi schort de werking van dit
besluit niet op.

2/2

Cover letter

Dear [Nationctt Tax Authorityj,

The Article 29 Working Party’, the group of the data protection author
ities of the European Union
set tip by Article 29 of the “Directive 95/461EC of 24 October 1995 on the
protection of individuals
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of
such data”, has prepared
a questionnaire addressed to national tax authorities.
The main aim of the questionnaire is to assess the level of implementatio
n of data protection
principles, as foreseen by Directive 95/46/EC, in the context of bilater
al/multilateral agreements
between countries which provide for the automatic exchange of information
for tax purposes.
The automatic inter-state exchange of data is an anti-evasion tool which
has been foreseen by a
number of legal instruments, at both international and European level (e.g.
“foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act”- FATCA-, OECD/Council of Europe Multilateral Conve
ntion on Mutual
Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, OECD Common Report
ing Standard, Directive
201 l/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation,
Directive 2014/1O7IEU
amending Directive 201 l/16IEU as regards mandatory automatic exchange
of information in the
field of taxation).
-

The resuits of the questionnaire will provide the Working Party with usefuf
background information
for the preparation of WP29’s Guidelines for a correct application of data
protection principles in
this sector, which will be soon addressed to national govemments.

Therefore, on behalf of the WP29, we transmit the questionnaire
together with an
Explanatory Note to provide a better understanding of the previous work
of the WP29 in this field,
and the aims of the questionnaire
with the kind request to provide your answers to the
following address: [DPA ‘s e-inait address] by 18 May 2015.
—

-

The WP29 thanks in advance for the cooperation and is convinced that
starting a constwctive
dialogue with the institutions competent for tax matters is an important
step to ensure that anti
evasion policies are conceived with due respect for the right to private
life and the protection of
personal data from earliest stages of procedure, as recognised by Europe
an and international

instmments.

1

legal

The Article 29 Working Party is an independent European advisory body
on data protection and privacy. Its tasks are
described in Articte 30 of Directive 95/46JEC and Articte
15 of Directive 20021581EC. Website:
http://ec.europa.euljusticefdata-protectionlindex_en.htm

Explanatory Note

The data protection authorities of the European Union, repre
sented in the Article 29 Working Party
(WP29) are examining the new developments at Euro
pean and international level which aim to
introduce mechanisms for the automatic inter-state exch
ange of personal data for tax purposes.
Part of the work of the WP29 is to investigate issues affec
ting indïviduals’ right to the pfotection of
personal data, as provided for by the EU data protection
directive, Directive 95/46/EC2.
In the last few years, the need to fight against tax evasion led
govemments to engage in the creation
of information exchange tools.
In the United States the “Foreign Account Tax Complian
ce Act” (FATCA) was enacted with the aim
to combat tax evasion by US tax residents using foreign acco
unts.
On 15 July 2014, the OECD Council approved the “Sta
ndard for Automatic Exchange of Financial
Account Information
Common Reporting Standard” (“CRS”), which (on
the basis of the
Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assi
stance in Tax Matters) inciudes common due
diligence procedures to be used by financial insti
tutions to identify reportable accounts, and
contains a Model Competent Authority Agreement that may
be used by States to allow the financial
account information to be exchanged.
—

At European level, Directive 2011/16/EU 011 administ
rative cooperation in the field of taxation
underwent a revision process which Jed to the adop
tion on 9th of December 2014 of Council
Directive 2014/107/EU. Directive 2014/YO7IEU aims
at ensuring a comprehensive Union-wide
approach to the automatic exchange of information
for anti-tax evasion, and substantially
incorporates the OECD CRS in the EU legal framewor
k.
-

-

In the last few years, the WP29 has dealt with the impa
ct of automatic exchange of information on
the right to the protection of personal data in the follo
wing documents:
—

—

Two letters, respectively adopted on 21St June 2012
and on l October 20i2, concerning
FATCA
Letter on OECD CR5 adopted on 18 September 20l.4
.
More recently, on 4 February 20156, the WP29 adop
ted a “Statement on automatic inter-state

2

Directive 95/46/EC of the European Partiament and of
the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individ
uals
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the
free movernent of such data;
3See:http://ec.europa.eu/justice/data-protection/article-29/do
cumentation/otherdocumentlfiles/20 12/2012062 Ijetter_totaxud_fatca_en.pdf
3See:http:llec.europa.eu/iustice/d-rotectio&anicte-29/dumen
tatio&otherdocumentltiles/20 12/20121 OOljetter_to taxud fatca
en.pdf
The
letter
is
available
at:
http://ec.europa.eu/iustice/data-protectionlarticle-29/docurnen
tation/otherdocument/files/20 14/2014091 letter on oecd cornm
on_reportin standard.pdf.pdf, whereas the Annex
at:
http://ec.europa.eu/j usticc/data-protection/article-29/docume
ntationlotherdocumenUfiles/20 14/2014091 8_annex_oecd_common_rep
orting_standard.pdf.pdf
6
The Statement is avaitable at: http://ec.europ
a.eu/justice/data-protectionlai-ticte-29/documentationlopinio
n-

exchanges of personal data for tax purposes”, to draw the
attention of national govemments and EU
institutions on the need that such exchanges should meet
data protection requirements set forth by
EU law, with particular regard to the principles of necessity
and proportionality and taking into due
regards the effects of the ECI Decision of 8 April 2O1
4 which declared Directive 20061241EC (the
“Data Retention Directive”) invalid on the ground that Euro
pean Union Iegïslators had exceeded the
limits of proportionality in forging the Directive. In such
decision, the Court stressed the need for
legislation to provide access for the competent natio
nal authorities to personal data and their
subsequent use for purposes of prevention, detection or pros
ecution of criminal offences. The Court
required objective criteria determining the limits for
such operations, given the extent and
seriousness of the interference with the fundamental right
s as enshrined in Articles 7 and 8 of the
Charter of fundamental Rights of the European Unio
n. National Iegislators, competent authorities
and institutions should be aware of this principle, whic
h applies a fortiori for those processing
operations designed to monitor behavior which does not have
a criminal connotation.
As announced in the said Statement, the WP29
also further to a request by the European
Commission- intends to provide additional guidance
so that the bilateral/multilateral agreements
and/or national laws ïmplementing the legal framewor
k on administrative cooperation in the field of
taxation can afford additional and consistent safeguard
s in terms of data protection.
-

To that end, the WP29 considers it an important prelimina
ry step to take stock of the avaflability of
the existing legal frameworks, detect the current data
protection gaps and/or major diftèrences in
the instmments at national level.
In order to obtain such factual fmdings and backgrou
nd information, the WP29 prepared the
questionnalre to be transmitted by each national DPA
to national tax authorities.

Aims of the questionnaire
This questionnaire is mainly aimed to:
-

-

-

Assess compliance of national tax authorities with
European data protection law in the
context of the automatic exchange of personal data for
tax purposes;
Gather more precise information on the current avail
ability of specific data protection
safeguards in the automatic data transfers, agreemen
ts and statements of protocol conciuded
between the national tax authorities and their counterpa
rts in and outside of the EU;
Gather background information for future preparati
on of WP29 Guidelines for Member
States on the criteria to ensure compliance with data
protection requirements in the context
of the automatic exchange of personal data for tax purp
oses.

*

*

*

reconimendationlfiles/20 15/wp230_en.pdf
Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights fretand, Seidin
ger a.o., published on http:lleur-lex.europa.euftegat
contentlENR’XT/?uri=CELEX:6201 2CJ0293

/

Questionnaire to national tax authorities on automatic exch
ange of data for tax purposes
Ftease note that the fottowing questions refer to existing bilater
aUmultitateral agreernents providing for the
automatic exchange of information for tav purposes. Howe ve,;
where possible, we would appreciate an
answer also in respect ofpossibte current negotiationsforfitture
agreements.

1. FATCA and other international tools Status of internatio
nal agreements in your country
and cooperation with fmancial institutions and insurance com
panies
-

1.1. Did your tax authority sign a (bilateral or multilateral) agreem
ent with the Government of the
United States of America under the Foreign Account Tax Compl
iance Act (FATCA), or with any
other authority outside of the FU on the automatic exchange of
information for tax purposes?
Yes
1.2. 1f yes, can you provide us with a list of such authorities and
a copy of the agreements?
The Ne &Jp1s conclude4 tbe.foliowing agreements:
• FATCA-agreement between the Neffierlands and the US,
• $eveiial Memoraizda of Understandrng (M0U) regardrng
autornnge of information
imder the bilateraltaxcbnventiions.
• Ojie the EU e. Neffierlands conciuded MoU S 011 autm
a1ic echange of information
wilih Argentma, Austialia Canada Ghana, Japan New Zealan
d, Souffi Corea
• All bilateral x Gonventions are published in the Bullet,m of
Acts,
• All MoU’s arGpiiblished in he Government Gazette (www.
ov&heid.n1Jstaatscourant).
1.3 1f yes, is this agreement, or at least are its provisions on
the automatic transfer of information
binding on both your authority as well as the receiving
authority, in particular as for the
enforceability of data subjects’ rights in the receivïng country?
• The FATCA-agreement is binding to the US and the Netihe
rlands
• TheMoJs are limdmg to the Netherlands and the MoU-p
artner
1.4. 1f not, what is the current state of negotiation of any agreem
ents for the automatic transfer of
information?
iLlJIe
1.5. Could you explain to what an extent your authority
has cooperated with the local
representatives of the fmancial institutions and insurance
companies that are subject to the
international laws on automatic exchange of information for tax
purposes?
of the anc;al
negotiaflng the FATCA-grement With
US The
cinlent 0fl whn we
1ie
t€n’al 1e16on
-

r

1.6. In this context, were any (public) agreements or anangements
made with the private sector, and
towhat extent was this discussion reflected in your national law?
There were nopc agreemeats or aiigernents made wiffi
1thpnvate sestorregarding FATCA

or regaiiding AEoI.

2. OECD Common Reporting Standard
2.1. The OECD Common Reporting Standard (CR
5) sets forth due diligence standards for
financial
institutions to identify the “reportable accounts”,
and provides for a “Model Competent Auth
ority
Agreement” that may be used by states to
exchange information for tax purposes. Does
your
national legal framework provide/intend to prov
ide for the implementation of automatic exch
ange
of information for tax purposes as foreseen by CRS
? Yes

yes, can you provide us with a copy of the agreemen
t? Not nêcessary we implement the EU
Di-eGUve 20l4/l07J .in our national law Rega
rding non EU €oiantries the Netherlands will
use
the aforrnentioned Model (MCAA)
2.3. Does your authority (intend to) use the Mod
el Competent Authority Agreement as a basis
for
exchanging data? See answerin 2.2.
2.4. 1f so, what is the definition given by your
legal framework of “low risk accounts”
to be
excluded from data collection?
In the deflnon o excluded account in our domestic
legislaüon we refer to Section Vifi,
subparagrphs C(17)fa) through (g), of Annex lof
Dire€tive 2011/16/BU (which was added in
Direcuve 202 411071EW) This defrmtion mcludes
the lo* risk accounts that are excluded (Section
VIII, subpgraph C(17)(g) of Annex lof Directive
2011/1 6[EU) In this deflmtion we refer to a
list of exclde aeounts This list will be published
by the EJ

3. EU tools for administrative cooperation in the
field of taxation (Directive 2011/16/EU and
Directive 2014/107/EU)
3.1. Did your country implement Directive 201 1/I6I
EU on administrative cooperation in the field
of
taxation? Yes
3.2. Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative coop
eration in the field of taxation was recen
tly
amended by Directive 2014/ÏO7IEU. When
and how is the implernentation of this Dire
ctive
planned? ] heimplementation of Directive 2014/107
/EU in nationallaw will take place in 2015
.

4. Aim of EU harmonïsation
4.1. Do you plan or would you welcome any actio
ns of harmonisation vis-â-vis the approach
es in
other Member States at EU level? Yes
4.2. 1f so, how couldlshould such EU-level harm
onisation be achieved in your view in term
s of
data protection?
a. Guidance by WP29 on the data protection
content of the EU Legal framework andlor
bilateral tax agreements
b. Application of the procedure envisaged in
Article 218 of the EU Treaty (Commission
submits recommendation to Council to open
negotiation with consultation of WP 29). Wha
t
are your views on further amendments of EU law,
for instance by adding substantive data
protection clauses? 1f so, are there any artic
les in the EU legal framework on automati
c
transfer of information for tax purposes that requ
ire clarification?
c. Adoption of the new Data Protection Regu
lation in 2015

d. Informal approach: Practical discussion with repre
sentatives of the WP29 and the
European Commission on the impact of LU case law8
on the content of such arrangements
and the required minimum data protection content of
international tax agreements to reduce
therskofnegativecourtdecision
e. We aretryin to hmionize the .ppro*of the EU
protection
pnnciples towrds tiurd eountnes wi
e4y de.,q,sn
prepanng ncJe that may 1je
abasisT diseussmg âpossibk
under secbon 7,1 d of
theAfspeefication of
personal data) The note will be
pfflaaon with 1?ut daiu
ci
TAt) (anformally) and 1he OECD
contaan a draft noan ri
se
Çolipetent Auffionties of EU
a11ow them to exchangeinfttoniiMer ieMÂ with
non Eli junsdictions
It
tam anoverwew of
ei1 in the BU Data
Pi%iifetive that .re not part of th draft nôtificati
oii, tögehr wïth a short explanation why
-:
:theywere not rncluded. We do not seernenteo
ptions abcd.
-

-

-

‘.

-

.

5. Availability of data protection safeguards
As also stated hy the WP29 in the Annex to the letter adopted
on 18 September (see the Explanatory
Note above), there are several data protection principles
as also interpreted by the EU Court of
Justice in the data retention case9
to be taken into account by governments and
competent
institutions to make sure that the automatic exchange of
information for tax purposes is carried Out
while ensuring the respect for data protection obligations unde
r Directive 95146/EC.
In this regard, what are the measures that are currently conc
iuded or proposed (or developed in the
negotiations) in order to ensure data protection in acco
rdance with national and EU law? Please
answer by refening in particular to the following principles
:
—

-

5.1. Availability of data protection safeguards

-

DPIA

5.1.1. Is a Data Protection Impact Assessment(DPJA) ora
formal consultation of the national DPA
being envisaged and at which stage? Yes, we made a
DPIA and it was sent to the national DPA
together with the bill implementing the Dfrective into natio
nal law.
5.1.2. Did you perform a Data Protection Impact
Assessment during the negotiations of
international agreements by:
acontacting your national DPA for further informati
on
j,. your owu assessment (please explain what guidance you
used such as intemal guidance
bytn-jiouse or extemal ounsel e.g. law office publ
ic opinion or other means. Thank you
also for providing us with a copy or summary of the cont
ent of this guidance to be able to
check at least the sumrnary of the data protection impa
ct assessment. The guidance of the in
housecounsellors was onally.
c. other (please explain)
—

-

5.2. Avallability of data protection safeguards

-,

-

Legal basis in national law

For rnstarlce: impact of the Decision of the Graad Chamb
er of the Court of Justice on the “Data retention Dtrecti
ve”:
Cases C-293/12 and C-594/12, Digital Rights freland, Seitlin
ger ao., published on http://eur-Ïex.europa.eu
flegal
content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:62012C
J02937. As recalled in the Explanatory Note to this questionnaire,
the
ECJ Decision declared Directive 2006/24/EC (the “Data
Retention Directive”) invalid on the ground that Europe
an
Union legislators had exceeded the Itmits of proportionality
in forging the Directive.
See previous footnote.

5.2.1. Are bilateral or multiÏateral agreements, such as Tax
Treaties, conciuded for the purpose of
exchange of information subject to formal ratification proced
ure by your national Parliament? Yes
5.2.2. Did your country adopt a national law that provid
es for the possibility of automatic transfer of
personal data for tax evasion purposes to third countries
? Yes
5.2.3. 1f so, can you give us the references of such law
and specify which instruments at
international level are transposed7 In he ‘Wet op d inter
national b;jstandsverlemng bij delfJng
hïtmgen’ (WIE) all Directie rgardmg eig
of tfonnation are implemente lie data
prote@tion safeguards rnttus law are eqafly
exchange of information with third
countries.
5.2.4. 1f not, have you prepared a first draft of a legal basis
for the automatic transfer? Has your
national data protection authority been involved in the proces
s? 11 not, at which stage of the process
do you plan to involveit? Is there any timeframe for the legisla
tion process? When do you plan the
law to enter in force? N/A
5.3. Availabillty of data protection safeguards

-

Data to be exchanged

5.3.1. for each individual, does the collection of data regard
only the total of the owned amounts at
a certain date, or does it also cover each movement on the
account?
The collection of data does not also cover each movemen
t on the account
5.3.2. What data are collected (current accounts; deposi
t accoitnts; credit cards; .shareholdings;
personal property and real estate, etc.) and what are the
criteria to identify the data to he collected?
n general, the dataollected may fertain to dep
&‘accits, custodial accounts, equity and
debt initerests and cash value insurance/annuity contracs.
However, low risk accounts, like
retirement and pensions aceounts, and acconuts of lown
sk finan&ial rnstitutions, are excluded
Most important criteria to identify ihe relevant accctuits is whet
her the afo.rernenioned aceounts are
financial isisitution-accounts held by (non &xcluded) repo
rtable persons g under CRS reportabe
pesons are fiscal residents of a CRS-parir
iunsdaction or passve non 1na,oia1 entities Wit3 one
or more conrollmg persons that is a
s inciude corporations whose
stock is regulafly taded on an cc_
et rand ffieirrél entities), goveriiment
entilies, aud fmaicial Institutions A
î a passi.ve non finana1 entty is the
namral sob exerc;ses coni
Jy controfling ownership interest in
the enty oft
tepeted ? 25%
1 (andiieis), the se
“r(s), benefic;ary(ies), and any other
rson.(s) eepismg
four çbfferei
a
dmdua1 acounts,
-

—-

—

-

—

coliect

t)

t

‘-‘

liri the iaw

oiï’ïu

5.3.3. Does your national authority create a datahase of
(and the reby duplicate) the collected data?
No,

Leiot duplicate the data.

L

FôtCA the da to

-

5.3.4. Does your national law contain provisions relating to:
a. identification of scope (data to be exchanged)
ii data quality (i.e. principles of proportionality, data minimization
, data accuracy, maximum data
retention period, etc. Content regarding these principles isfurther elabora
ted betow).
-

Yes The Neffierfands has iimplemejited ldae data pxote1aon prmciples as foresee
n by Directtve
951461EC The data to bb echnge readnfiQdm the 1aw see 5 3 2 The
prmip1es of
proporuonahty, subs;dianty
ae implnted in the relevant ],ws, g the Law on
International Assistance (WISi theav orLIdetion of Personal data (Wbj$
) our General Tax
Law (AWR), the Law on Data Retentiorf (Ariefwet)
5.4. Availability of data protection safeguards

-

Proportïonality1°

5.4.1. How are parties prevented from engaging in “fishing expeditions”
or requesting information
that is unlilcely to be relevant to the tax affairs of a given person or ascertainable
group or category
of persons?’

Parties are prevented from engaging in “fishing expeditions” because othe
basis of the Directiv
on Administrative Cooperafion (DAC) our DTA’ s and our other £01 instrum
ents may only
request for information that is foreseeably relevant to the tax affairs of a given
person Furffiermore,
the requests for information from Ihe Netherlands tax offices always have to
go out via and after
scnutiny by the Netherlands Competent Authority (B/CLO Almelo) who is
dedicatedto and well
tramed in sfricUy adhenng to the 1egi frrnework onEOl
-

.

—

5.4.2. How is automatic exchange of information carried out in practic
e? Please describe what
technique is applied, and what it means in practice (are there any previous
filtering mechanisms in
place for data exchange, or which unique identifiers are used?, etc.).
Under CRS and FATCA the data to 5e changed are captured by the
Financial ksliituliions in
conformity wilih the diie dffigen€e and Golleciing procedures described in
the CRS-standard and the
fATCA-treaty wi.th the US Part of the dte diligence procedures is captun
ng the foreign TIN Part
of the collectitng procedure is the exc1is pf low nsk data
The relevant data collected by ae Fmaneial Institutiions are send to the
Centrai Admimstratton
Center of the Tax Mministration ;ffi av to mternational exchan
ge with the CRS-parmers or
the US Boitli ffie CRS-standard
eATCA-treaty will be c are implemented in ffie naüonal
law and regulatrons on nteniâttoual Admimsftative Assistan€e (WIB)
W;th regard to IT tecImiqu1the automatrc1cbange of information shail
be sent usmg a standard
tsomputerised format aimed at faflitating suchautomat!ic exhange.
—

—

5.4.3. What is your assessment on the necessity of the automatic transfe
r of information for tax
evasion purposes?
Given the

pppibes to mibroadrna wide

10

Based on the ECJ decision invatidating the Data Retention Diiecti
ve (see the previous footnote), in order not to
violate the proportionality principle, it is necessary to demonstrably prove
that the planned processing is necessary and
that the required data are the minimum necessary for attaining the
stated purpose and thus avoid an indiscriminate,
massive collection and transfer.
Comments mi article 4 of the Convention of 25 January 198$ of
the OCDE and the Council of Europe on Mutual
Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, published on httpJ/w
ww.conventions.coe.intlTreatvfEN/ReportsfNtmll127Revised .htin#article4

iyi tpur lo
EI
dear
ihstrumens ap nöt tailoro fc! sombat
m’te’ma$sp4ns wher 4ix
adimntrati.on s iio (1ear)
ëythe fj1e TÇtjW
entenon) that tax paers qnc1
taxamo% or asets fronieiftax adiimsiratcoibyhg
(bank) accounts or mterpoed veu abroad This
is ohly ossi1e via autornalac exdfinge

g4r to

5.4.4. Are bilateral automatic exchange mechanism flully
s
in place with all counterparties in foreign
jurisdictions? I.e. Do you autC)matically receive for all
countries the data related to your own data
subjects’2?
For ABOI on (bank)account nformationw have in place
the FATCA treaty
2013) The first eçIgesvil1
in ‘$ptember 2015 Furthrmore,
asBU MS’are
subjected to e DAC2 (to p imp1emntd befo 2016
re
and first ex&hange startmg as of pteme
r
2017) furth&mo;e, Iaa committ@d to being early
adopter in the P (ID/Globaj Forum RS,
process The Neffierlands is party to the ÔEC
t)/Council f Europe Multilateral Con’reihj on
Admimstralive Assistanse on Tax Mter The NetherÏan
ds signed the CRS-MCAA bad
ont
article 6 of this Convenüoji, in 2014 &fore the end
of this year, after the pre’hmmary peer reviews
regardmg data protecton and safekuais are complete
d, we expect to enter mto exchange
relationships under the RS-MCAA,’’iffi the first exch
anges starting as of September 2Ö17.
5.5. Avaïlability of data protectîon safeguards Data
retention
-

5.5.1. Does your legislation provide for a specific data
retention period? 1f so, please specify the
minimum and the maximum retention periods.
The Netherlands’ tax1egisIatiouprovides for specific data
retention perïdds pertaini g to(he
retenhiion obligations for tax payers/tbird parties. The data
retention period for most types of
information (e.g. aGcou nformatiou)isseven year
s (article 52 AWR). For a few spe&iftclypes of
information data retentiohjrioasmay vary from
5 to 10 years. The retentionpriod for aining
tax relevant informat!ion by the tax administration is
regulated in the Law on Data Reteütion.
5.5.2. How long do you store data received from insti
tutions, insurance companies, etc.? How long
do you store data you automatically receive from othe
r countries, also participating in the automatic
exchange?

The Law on Data R

nA±iefwet applies to both categories.

5.5.3. Is there a procedure for the deletion or conection
of obsolete or incorrect data?

W

For this we have a standard prosedure taken up in our
Law on protection ofj.rsnaï daïa
(Wbp) for requests and Gomp1wns
procechire is made ubhc by a14cafle “De
Belastingdienst öe ebe&ir ygpersonsgegeven
s (Wbp’) This
amo.ng
adthef

5.6. Avallability of data protection safeguards

-

Data Controtler

5.6.1. What decisions does/did your authority take as
for the forwarding of the data for tax evasion
purposes?

2

Data subjects that are subject to the tax laws of your
country while they have economic activities
or receive income
outside of your country.

Nehher1als rnp.tên4’k*ority luEas çommilited to nd is thetforeot!Iff
d to adbere to the data
protonsafeguars requh’edbythe FATcA and CRS hiles.
5.6.2. In particular: Does your authority (intend to) provide “data
warehousing” services for the
automatic transfer of information to foreign counterparts? I.e. To
what an extent does your actthority
store data forwarded by national institutions (banks, insurance
companies, etc.) where such
institutions are subject to foreign legislations on automatic transfe
r of information for tax purposes
(e.g. FATCA or others)?
This question is not çlear .toj; The Netherlands does not intend
tostore liiie data forwarded by
natcoi?al anstiautions for TATCA çf CRS purposes We mtend to
exchane liiie data in conformity
wiffi our obhgalicons in th FATCA-lireaty and CRS (international) legal
exehange mstruments

5.6.3. In particular: Does your authority (intend to) provide «data wareho
using» services for data
you automatically receive from other countries? 1f yes, please describ
e how these data are further
processed.
The financial account infbrmabionreceived
the basis of the FÂTA lireaty and CR5
legislation/trealiies will be forwaMed to the tax offices to be taken
into account in the usual process
of checking/controlling the individual tax returns. Furthermore,
we expect to beab1e to process
these data inEh framework ofthepre filled tax return within a
few years.

5.6.4. In that case, does your authority accept full responsibility
as a “data controller”13 under
Directive 95/46/EC vis--vis the data subjects?
Yes. The Netherlands alheres to the Directive 95/46/EC.
5.6.5. 1f not, do you consider that (only) institutions or other parties
are data controllers undet the
terms of EU Directive 95/46/EC? Why?
Not applicable.

5.7. Availabiity of data protection safeguards
reciprocity vis--vis your own data subjects

-

Transparency / Oblïgation to inform and

5.7.1. Are all your national laws and international anangements
related to the automatic transfer of
personal data published? Please provide us with a list.
Yes. Our laws ptablished in the Staasblad (Bulletin of Acts). Our
international arrangements are
published m fh Çptaenb1ad (lireaties) and the Staatscourant
(government gazelle) You may find
lihem 0fl wV.tvhgidii1.

5.7.2. Do you require that foreign authorities inform the data subjec
ts that are subjects of the tax
Iaws of your country of the fact that their data is processed for
tax evasion purposes?
Yes, but ffiey hato Qiothatin way

tlihls may notjeopardizetax mvesU&aons

5.7.3. 1f not, do you inform data subjects yourself upon recepti
on of the information from foreign
counterparts?

‘

See Article 2.d of Directive 95/46/EC.

Data sufijes4e
rsp%t wi11 so 1+oadLy
tbas’ ortipn ia
informti&i re ewed from counterarts wiJI be used
ofhex return of hihrndua1 ‘* per mvolved and in the near
future
retJiffl:ie idrvidu
pa9er mvoivJd
-

ii

-

to preii the tax

5.7.4. 1f not, wliat is the reason for non-appilcation of the obligation to
inform the data subjects that
are subject to your own tax laws?
Not applicable,

5.8. Avallability of data protection safeguards

-

Purpose defrnition and limitation

5.8.1. Is there a clear-cut defrnition of “tax infringement” according to the
national tax system?
No.
5.8.2. 1f not, why not?

Tax infriiïement m
many for.E. The essence is that there is tal infringement if and when
tax laws have not been qb.eyd. itja r’gard to not fuffiffing the obligaüons
to send in correct and
timely tax retums anI liiie obhgalcons to €ooperate with the tax admirnstratio
n we have specific
provisions in our General Tax LVR).
5.8.3. Does your law on automatic exchange of information provide for
a dear limitation on the use
of the excbanged information for tax purposes only? I.e. is the use of the
exchanged information for
other than tax purposes excluded (money laundering, corruption, financi
ng of terrorism, etc.)? Are
the conditions for eventual other purposes provided for? 1f so, which
ones?

Our law on iii! ional exchange of information (WIB) implements the
EU Diiectives on
Administra1iv.e A.ssiistajaçe and our treaty instrumeuts. So, if he Direive
and/or treaiies allow for
the use of e’xchjeinformat!ton for other than tax purposes (which
_IØr certain eonditions
the Directive and of our treaties do) this is allowed by our nation
al1awThether purposes
L
may be money 1aunaemg, comiption2 financing of terrorism, social secunt
y This depends on thel
lega1insrht
The cnditions are usual,Ty reciprocal and having iiational laws allowi
ng for this oflheruse. For
cnrnmal ta mattsZw rna also use mutual legal assistance freatres
—

-

5.8.4. 1f not, is sufficient attention given in your national law to other
legal instruments which are
already available at EU or national level and should be considered in
case of use of information for
criminal matters? I.e. does your national law take into account the possih
ility to exchange
information on criminal tax matters based on bilateral or multilateral
treaties’4 on muwal legal
assistance (to the extent they also apply to tix crimes), as well as on domes
tic legislation regulating
the granting of such assistance’?
14
Sec a.o. the European Convention of 20 April 1959 on mutuat assista
nce in criminal matters. published on
http://www.conventions.coe.intffreatv/en[Treaties/HLml/030.h
tm
15

See comment on articte 1 § 1 of the Convention of 25 January 1988
of the OCDE and the Council of Europe on
Mutual
Administrative
Assistance
in
Tax
Maners,
published
on
http:/lw w.con’entions.coe.inuTïeatv/ENJReportsfHtrntJ 1 27-Rc ised.lit
rn#article3, and the bilateral aEreement 0fl
mutuat legal assistance between the European Union and the United States
of America of 25 June 2003, L181, 19 Juty
2003, p. 34.

See 5.8.3.
5.8.5. Does this purpose limitation safeguard appl
y also to the onward transfers from the recei
ving
authority to third authorities?
Yes Please
the onward transfer from receivIg auffiority
to third authoriües is often not
pos sible or bond by sct1ifnitations.

5.9. Avallability of data protection safeguards

-

Rights of data subjects

5.9.1. Does your national law provide for direct right
s of access, rectification and right to object
under articles 12-14 of Directive 95/46/EC vis-â
-vis your authority? 1f so, please describe this
procedure.
The Dutch
otetaon of personal data IWbp) provides
fbr iectnghts of access
reetffication en right to bjeGt.
Right of access (âR 35 -p): Any data subject may
, at reasonable intervals, ask the controllerj
whether personal 14a ela1ing to him are processed
. A reqüe.s must he tëd within four
weeks.
The answer must contain the following information:
a summary of the data of the data subject
pro€essed by ‘tb coiro1ier the purpose(s) of the
data processmg, th
of data to whrchj
he prcessing relates, (categories of) recipients
, informalion about the origin of the data
Right of.rèctffiçafiqn (art. 36 Wbp): A data subject
may ask the controller to correct the data
relating 5 lijm. flie desfred changes must be indic
ated in the request. 3rechion implies:
correction, snp1ementing, deletion, blocking. The
data subject must be normed witbin four week
s
about the d€sion.
Right to obj&çt (art. 40 Wbp): when data are processed
on the groiand t1this processing is
necessary for the pro,per performance of a pubk
c law duty performed by the controller, the data
subject ffiayTgister’an objection on grounds in conn
ection wilfia his particular personali
cfreumstances. The controller has to decide whether
the objection is well founded within four
weeks.
-

—

-

5.9.2. Are there limitations onlexceptions to the data
subject’s rights? 1f so, for what reason and
what are the safeguards for the application of an
exception? In particular, does your law (intend
to)
provide restrictions on the scope of the obligations
and rights provided for in Article 10, Article
11(1), Articles 12 and 21 of Directive 95/46/EC,
as foreseen by Article 25 of Directive
201 1/16JEU?
Therearç rcstric!ions-to data subjects rigi ts base
d on art. 43 Wbp.
The obtç provide information to data subjects
and requests for acsess and rectification may
fimbë
GSiary
q nthstatesèj
rfstipion
osecut.iQp. o €niia1 offes;
economie çrfnancia1ets of the tate
offir]ac bodies,

[

-

-

-

oenma1 offen of

-

niannanaaiöfthe state and

5.9.3. Does your national law provide for direc
t riglits of access, rectification and rigli
t to object
under articles 12-14 of Directive 95/46/EC vis-â
-vis the financial institutions, insurance com
panies,
etc.?
The aforemntied articiesTart. 35, 36 and 40
Wbp) appiy to aïi contrdller.

—v

1

___
____
__
_

5.10. Availabilîty of data protection safeguards

-

Data security’6

5.10.1. What security measures are (or are expected to
be) in place? Please describe them briefly.
For
•; $akgrçund Checks and conhracts for
employees n
nta
;
and developmg awareness of enp1oyesgard
nfg @ondntia1 information,
Aceess control Access onlyto the information if Ôe
on isnfledto have access,
T t,âtiion and authenticaiiiortof auer by ccouit nam
e anjpsjord,
•
assGssments,
t)epartixipohcy end all ac€es possjbihs when
an employee leaves
• ?hysc1 Do&iment Storage Mamtenance
• &ca oji of ihe systems and commuucons,
• Risk ?ss@sxIent4to ;dentify nslcs and t!he potential
impact of unauffionsed access use and
diselosure 5f information
-

-

5.10.2. What kind of control (preventive and/or ex post
) is canied out in order to ensure the correct
adoption of security measures? See 5.10.1.
5.10.3.
Please
describe
the
technical
parameters
for
any
measures
of
encryptionlintegrity/traceability of exchanges that
are in place to safeguard the transfer and storage
of personal data.
Cryptogmplajc controls are being used in compliance with
applicahle laws and regulatibns. Tax
offiGes follo tke guidelmes for protectmg sensitive infor
mation and make use of encryption when
presecbe
penmtted by legislation and regulations Legal reuir
ernents are mcorporated rn the
seuntypp1cy handbook of the Tax admmistratio
n
Netwotk eneryption is apphed to protect the confidentialit
y of sensititve and cntical information
dunng ther tansport over the Nattonal Domams Tran
sport of information between locations of the,
Tax Adrrnistration is standard encrypted Part of PKII
SSL Portal and hoÏders of certificates For
the common domain we use the CCN netvork.
Cont&it rent and received on phys;&al media (such as
dvd’s, harddnves and usb-devices) ;s
prQtte, by ismg AES256 eneryption, in a ZIP-cont
ainer
E1tmc aata exchange via mtemet or pnvate netw
orks is protected with server (and sometimes
chent)side certificates (PM-ove.rheidssertificaten)
$oiiae ewbanges protect the content by defimng a SHA
-5 12 digest value or are offierwise digitally
signe&
For Sorneexehanges there is additional access control:
usernai
d and sms-verification.
-

-

-

-

-

-

5.11

Availability of data protection safeguards
notification

-

Accountability through security breach

5.11.1. Does your national law provide for an oblig
ation to inform the competent authority (DPA
or
other) and/or the concerned data subjects in case
of a security breach related to the data that is
processed for tax purposes? Is such obligation envi
saged for breaches at data warehouse level?
ALawprovimg an hgation to mfonn tiheDP
out mjor s@cunybrea

gr;s tQ e

The potential imptications of the technical options
that might be chosen in order to implement automa
tic cxchange of
information, in particular in the light of the ECJ’s decisio
n of 8th April 2014 on the Data retention Directi
ve, should be
kept in mmd.

ilÏemantd this ye
5.1 L2. Does this obligation apply to the private sector (financ
ial institutions, insurance companïes,
etc.) and/or the public sector (your tax authority)? Botli

5.12. Availability of data protection safeguards

-

Accountability through DPO

5.12.1. Has your authority appointed a Data Protection Offic
er (“DPO”) that is competent to deal
with any questions, complaints, access/rectification reques
ts related to the automatic transfer of
information of data subjects? Yes
5.12.2. 1f so, are the function description and competencies
of this DPO established by law?
Yes
5.12.3. 1f not, why not?
5.12.4. Is the DPO involved in the legislation process to point
Out data protection issues at an early
stage? Yes
5.12.5. To your knowledge, have the institutions and insuranc
e companies appointed a DPO to deal
with similar guestions as mentioned above? Yes

5.13. Avallabflity of data protection safeguards
personal data on suspicion of fraud

-

Special categories of data Protecting
-

5.13.1.What are the safeguards for the exchange of the special
categories of data as provided for by
Article 8 of Directive 95/46, in particular of data relat
ing to offences, criminal convictions or
sanctions? What are the safeguards for the exchange of inform
ation in case of suspicion of fraud?
Under our international exchange instrumeuts we can only
exchange t’ax e1ated information. The
usual data protection safeguards and refusal grounds apply.
The inte.rnational exchange instmments
and the confidentia1ity/dataprotection niles therein do not
differ between categories of data.

5.14. Avallability of data protection safeguards

-

Redress

5.14.1. Is the data that is automatically exchanged subjec
t to legal oversight at national level
(national DPA or national judicial or adrainistrative auth
ority)? Yes
5.14.2. In particular, is redress provided in case of erron
eous/unlawful processing and transmission?
Yes
5.14.3. How is liability allocated between financial insti
tutions and tax authorities? There are no
spe& agrên etwFrs and the tax auffionties w;th
iespect to allocate the hability
5.14.4. Is a full exercise of the control by an independent
authority ensured in the case of a data
transfer to a third country, as explicitly required by Article
8(3) of the EU Charter of Fundamental
Rights and highlighted by the ECJ in the data retention case’7
? No, the Nther1ands on1yansfers
‘71n the ECJ’s decision of 8 April 2014 invalidating the
Data Retention Directive, the Court highlighted that
the
retention of data outside EU would prevent the full exercis
e of the control. explicitly required hy Artiele 8(3)
of the
Charter, by an independent authority, which is an essential
component of the protection of individuals with regard
to the
processing of personal data.

w,.

data to t rdie iihh s i.ye1 of
country has apomted an mde nde’aionty
5.15. Availabitity of data protection safeguards

W don.’ lcno whether that third
Other safeguards

5.15.1. Is there a sunset clause18ltermination clause in bilater
al arrangements to ternunate the
arrangements in case any of the folfowing events happens: entry
into force of the European data
protection regulation, entry into force of another harmonisation regulat
ory action at EU level and/or
other? No
5.15.2. Do you plan any foÏlow-up action in the coming years to
take into account the changes that
are expected to be implemented by the announced EU Regulation on
data protection?
Yes

‘8A sunset provision or ctause is a measure within a statute, regulat
ion or other law that provides that the Jaw shafl cease
to have effect after a specific date, uniess further legislative action
is taken to extend the law. Most Iaws do not have
sunset clauses and therefore remain in force indefinitely.