[doc. web n. 10097341]  
Provision of November 27, 2024  
Register of provisions  
n. 729 of November 27, 2024  

THE GUARANTOR FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA  

IN THE meeting today, attended by  
Prof. Pasquale Stanzione, President, Dr.  
Agostino Ghiglia and Attorney Guido Scorza, members, and  
Secretary General Fabio Mattei;  

HAVING REGARD to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament  
and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with respect to the  
processing of personal data, as well as the free  
movement of such data and repealing Directive  
95/46/EC, “General Data Protection Regulation” (hereinafter, “Regulation”);  

HAVING REGARD to Legislative Decree No. 196 of June 30, 2003, containing  
“Code regarding the protection of personal data,  
containing provisions for the adaptation  
of the national legal system to Regulation (EU)  
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of  
April 27, 2016, on the protection of  
natural persons with respect to the processing of personal data, as well as the free movement of such  
data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter  
“Code”);  

HAVING REGARD to Regulation No. 1/2019 concerning  
internal procedures with external relevance,  
aimed at carrying out the tasks and  
exercising the powers delegated to the Guarantor for the  
protection of personal data, approved by  
Resolution No. 98 of April 4, 2019, published in  
G.U. No. 106 of May 8, 2019 and on www.gpdp.it, doc.  
web n. 9107633 (hereinafter “Guarantor Regulation  
No. 1/2019”);  

HAVING REGARD to the documentation on file;  

HAVING REGARD to the observations made by the Secretary  
General pursuant to Article 15 of the Guarantor  
Regulation No. 1/2000 on the organization and  
functioning of the office of the Guarantor for the  
protection of personal data, doc. web n. 1098801;  

Reporting Attorney Guido Scorza;  

PREAMBLE  

1. Introduction.  
With a complaint submitted pursuant to Article 77 of  
the Regulation and regularized on XX, Mr. XX,  
through his lawyer, represented that the  
Municipality of Motta Sant’Anastasia (hereinafter “Municipality”), where he performs his  
work activities, following the approval of the Selection Notice “XX”,  
published on the Municipality's official website,  
the determination No. XX of XX approving the  
“XX […] with specific indication of the personal details and  
the score assigned to individual employees”.  
Subsequently, with determination No. XX of XX  
“the final ranking on the horizontal progression was approved and published on the official website  
with all the names and personal details of  
each employee and the corresponding score  
assigned”.  

2. The investigative activity.  
With a note dated XX, prot. n. XX, the Municipality, in response to  
a request for information from the Guarantor (note prot.  
n. XX of XX), declared, in particular, that:  
- “determinations No. XX of XX and No. XX of XX  
were published on the official website  
of the Entity by virtue of the applicable sector regulations  
governing the timing and forms of publicity  
(publication in the public register) of the results of  
the competitive examinations and final rankings […] solely for the purpose of  
“allowing interested parties to activate forms of protection of their  
rights and to control the legitimacy of  
competitive or selective procedures”. In particular,  
Article 19 of Legislative Decree 33/2013 expressly states  
that “Without prejudice to other obligations of legal publicity,  
public administrations publish the competition notices for the recruitment, for any  
reason, of personnel within the administration,  
as well as the evaluation criteria of the Commission  
(the test papers and final rankings,  
updated with any movement of eligible non-winners). 2. Public administrations  
publish and keep constantly updated the  
data referred to in paragraph 1”;  
- “it is important to note that the published data are  
those strictly necessary for the identification of the  
interested parties, also avoiding the risk of  
homonymy, without any reference to psycho-attitudinal evaluations,  
health status and/or physical conditions”;  
- “the determinations were published as follows: determination No. XX of XX from XX  
to XX; determination No. XX of XX from XX to XX”;  
- “the determinations are not available on the  
Municipality's website and cannot be found online”.  

With a note dated XX, prot. n. XX, the Office, based on  
the elements acquired, the checks carried out, and  
the facts emerged following the investigative activity,  
notified the Municipality, pursuant to Article 166,  
paragraph 5, of the Code, of the initiation of the procedure for  
the adoption of the measures referred to in Article 58, paragraph  
2, of the Regulation, for having disseminated online the personal data of the complainant and other participants  
in the aforementioned procedure, by publishing  
on its official website determination No. XX of XX “XX” and determination  
No. XX of XX “XX” and related attachments, in the absence of  
an appropriate legal basis, in violation of  
Articles 5 and 6 of the Regulation and 2-ter of the Code (in  
the text prior to the amendments made by Legislative Decree No. 139 of October 8, 2021, in force at the time the conduct subject  
to the investigation was carried out).  

With the same note, the aforementioned holder was  
invited to submit to the Guarantor written defenses or  
documents or to request to be heard  
by the Authority (Article 166, paragraphs 6 and 7, of the Code,  
as well as Article 18, paragraph 1, of Law No. 24 of November 1981,
n. 689).
With note from XX, the Municipality, which did not request to be heard, submitted a defense memorandum, stating, in particular, that:
- “the Regulatory provision (art. 8 of the Municipal Regulation for economic progression within the category) provides for a specific publication duty (of that act and not of a generic category of acts) but, moreover, the publication has been minimized (besides the name and surname, there are no other data even in the attachments) and for the minimum time frame (having been deleted immediately afterwards) as well as it was carried out for the specific need indicated by the regulatory provision itself (publication of the P.E.O. ranking to allow for contradiction and appeals)”;
- “moreover, the publication of the rankings was also provided for by the announcement for horizontal economic progressions approved by determination n. XX R.G. XX of XX, which in art. 6 states that ‘Employees may, within five working days from the date of publication of the merit rankings, proceed to a contradiction, with the Municipal Secretary for holders of Organizational Position, or with the coordination group for employees who are not holders of P.O. who will decide definitively whether to modify the ranking or not’;
- “furthermore, the subsequent art. 10 of the aforementioned announcement in the last paragraph expressly states that ‘The submission of the application by the candidate implies consent to the processing of their personal data including sensitive data by the personnel assigned to the office responsible for the storage of applications and for their use in carrying out the section procedure’ (and, among the activities included in the ‘section procedure’, the publication is evidently also included)”;

- “finally, the candidates, including the appellant Mr. XX, were expressly informed and consented to the circumstance that ‘the personal data collected will be processed, including by electronic means, for the purposes established in art. 10 of the public selection notice’;
- finally, it should be highlighted how, in proceeding with the aforementioned activity of publishing a final ranking concerning a Horizontal Economic Progression (PEO), the municipality of Motta Sant’Anastasia acted in accordance with the same indications contained in paragraph 3.b. of the Guidelines issued by the Guarantor [doc. web n. 3134436], according to which it is necessary to give publicity to the final rankings [...] of competitions and public selections and other procedures that provide for the formation of rankings, for which the publication of the determinations, along with its two attachments, took place in compliance with what is established by the specific regulations regarding the publicity of administrative acts in the "Telematic Albo Pretorio" of the Entity (ex art. 32, paragraph 1, Law 69/2009 and subsequent amendments), for the strictly necessary time provided by the regulation and in accordance with the publicity and transparency obligations provided by the same Law”;
- “moreover, in the list of rankings, only the names of the employees were reported – without adding, therefore, further personal information such as psycho-attitudinal evaluations, health statuses and/or physical conditions – with the specific aim of allowing the participants in the selection to take immediate cognizance of the ranking and possibly present an appeal in the manner and within the deadlines provided by the PEO Regulation of the Entity”.
3. Outcome of the investigative activity. The applicable regulations.
The data protection regulations provide that public entities, even when acting in the performance of their duties as employers, may process the personal data of workers if the processing is necessary, in general, for the management of the employment relationship and to fulfill specific obligations or tasks provided for by national sector regulations (arts. 6, par. 1, lett. c), 9, parr. 2, lett. b), and 4, and 88 of the Regulation) or “for the execution of a task carried out in the public interest or related to the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller” (art. 6, par. 1, lett. e), of the Regulation).
More generally, European regulations provide that “Member States may maintain or introduce more specific provisions to adapt the application of the rules of this regulation concerning processing, in accordance with paragraph 1, letters c) and e), determining more precisely specific requirements for processing and other measures to ensure lawful and fair processing […]” (art. 6, par. 2 of the Regulation). In this regard, it is highlighted that the operation of disseminating personal data (such as online publication) by public entities is permitted only when provided for by a legal norm or, in cases provided for by law, by regulation (art. 2-ter, paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Code, in the text in force at the time the conduct subject to complaint was carried out, prior to the amendments made by the d.l. of October 8, 2021, n. 139).
The data controller is required to comply in any case with the principles regarding data protection (art. 5 of the Regulation).
3.1. The dissemination of personal data relating to horizontal economic progressions.
From the elements acquired and the facts emerged during the investigative activity, it has been established that the Municipality published on its institutional website determination n. XX of XX “XX” from XX to XX” and determination n. XX of XX
“XX” from XX to XX and the related attachments, containing the personal data of the complainant and numerous participants in the aforementioned procedure (about one hundred). During the investigation, the Municipality justified the dissemination of the personal data in question and the related attachments by invoking, as legal bases for the related processing, regulatory bodies and provisions that, however, for various reasons, do not appear relevant to the case at hand, or in any case are not sufficient to justify, in terms of data protection, the conduct of the Municipality.

As a preliminary matter, it is necessary to distinguish, also due to the different legal regime applicable, the provisions that regulate the obligations of publicity of administrative action for transparency purposes from those that regulate forms of publicity for different purposes, such as legal publicity. In particular, the obligations for online publication of data for "transparency" purposes are those indicated in Legislative Decree No. 33 of March 14, 2013, concerning "information regarding the organization and activities of public administrations, in order to promote widespread forms of control over the pursuit of institutional functions and the use of public resources" (see “Guidelines on the processing of personal data, including in acts and administrative documents, carried out for the purposes of publicity and transparency on the web by public entities and other obligated entities" of the Guarantor, provision of May 15, 2014, No. 243, web document No. 3134436, part I).

Alongside these publication obligations, other obligations for online publicity of data, information, and documents of the public administration coexist – contained in specific sector provisions different from those approved regarding transparency – such as, among others, those aimed at making known the administrative action in relation to compliance with the principles of legitimacy and correctness, or those aimed at ensuring the legal publicity of administrative acts (e.g.: supplementary publicity of effectiveness, declarative, notice; see Guidelines, cited part II).

Having said that, in reference to the case at hand, the Municipality's reference to the fulfillment of the obligations under Article 19 of Legislative Decree No. 33 of March 14, 2013, appears irrelevant, since the first paragraph of that provision, in prescribing the publication of only the “final rankings,” refers exclusively to “competition announcements for recruitment” (see provisions of March 25, 2021, No. 106, web document No. 9584421 and March 11, 2021, No. 89, web document No. 9581028) and not to internal procedures aimed at the economic progressions of personnel already in service (see, among others, provision of January 26, 2023, No. 28, web document No. 9865528).

In this regard, it is indeed appropriate to recall what has been expressly established by the National Anti-Corruption Authority - ANAC precisely regarding the scope of application of the aforementioned Article 19, in the part where it specified that internal selective procedures that determine a level change within the same area or category, so-called horizontal progressions, as in the case at hand, “are excluded from the objective scope of application of Article 19 ‘Competition Announcements’ of Legislative Decree 33/2013, as they are meritocratic procedures connected to the evaluation of the individual worker's contribution and not subject to the principle of public competition,” unlike progressions aimed at the change of qualification, consisting of placement in a higher area (so-called vertical progressions) that occur through comparative procedures, resulting in an objective novation of the employment relationship comparable to hiring (see ANAC Resolution No. 775 of November 10, 2021; paragraph 1-bis of Article 52 of Legislative Decree 165/2001, as well as the abundant case law on the matter, in particular, Court of Cassation, Labor Section, Order of December 7, 2020, No. 27932; Cass., United Sections, Judgment of June 6, 2017, No. 13981; Council of State, Section III, April 29, 2019, No. 2774; Council of State, Section V, July 6, 2010, No. 4313).

To support this, it is noted that the determination in question was not published in the “Transparent Administration” section of the Municipality's institutional website, as would have been necessary in the case of application of Legislative Decree No. 33 of March 14, 2013, confirming that the Municipality did not proceed with the publication in question for the invoked purposes of transparency of administrative action.

Among the various defensive arguments presented by the Municipality, aimed at justifying the publication of the determinations in question and the related attachments, there is the alleged necessity to comply “with what is established by the specific regulations regarding the publicity of administrative acts in the 'Telematic Albo Pretorio' of the Entity” (see Article 124 of Legislative Decree No. 267 of August 18, 2000 - Consolidated Law on the regulations of local authorities) which regulates the publication for 15 days in the Albo Pretorio of the resolutions of the Entity (see also Article 32, paragraph 1, of Law No. 69 of June 18, 2009, which merely provides that the obligations of publication of “acts and administrative provisions having the effect of legal publicity are considered fulfilled with publication on their own IT sites by the administrations and public entities obliged”). The cited provisions do not provide anything regarding the publication of determinations concerning rankings related to internal selective procedures that determine a level change within the same area or category (so-called Horizontal Economic Progressions).

The Guarantor, in this regard, has clarified on numerous occasions that even the presence of a specific
advertising regime cannot entail any
automaticity regarding the online dissemination of data
and personal information, nor a derogation from the principles
regarding the protection of personal data (see, among
many, the latest provision of July 4, 2024, no. 404,
web document 10050145 and previous ones cited therein).
In numerous decisions regarding the obligations
arising from Article 124 of Legislative Decree 267/2000, in fact,
the Guarantor has reiterated that all limits provided by the principles of
personal data protection also apply to publications
on the online Albo Pretorio of acts or resolutions, taking into account
first and foremost the existence of suitable conditions for
the legality of the online dissemination of the personal data contained therein, even before considering the possible
minimization of the same. This is also confirmed by
the personal data protection system contained in the Regulation, under which it is
provided that the data controller must implement
“appropriate technical and organizational measures to
ensure that, by default, only personal data necessary for each
specific purpose of the processing are processed” and must be “able to demonstrate” – in light of the principle of
“accountability” – that they have done so (Articles 5,
paragraph 2; 24 and 25, paragraph 2, Regulation). Therefore,
where the online publication of documents involves
the processing of personal data and thus their
dissemination, the needs for publicity pursued must be appropriately balanced
with the rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the dignity of the
data subject, with particular reference to
privacy, personal identity, and the right
to the protection of personal data, primarily identifying
the existence of a suitable legal basis for the dissemination of the data (see, lastly,
provisions no. 366 of November 10, 2022, web document no.
9834986 and no. 299, of September 15, 2022, web document no.
9815665).
During the investigation, moreover, the Municipality referred to point 3.b. of the “Guidelines on
the processing of personal data, including those
in acts and administrative documents, carried out
for the purposes of publicity and transparency on the web by
public entities and other obligated entities” (provision
no. 243 of May 15, 2014, web document no. 3134436), which
contemplates not the publication for transparency purposes, but forms of “advertising of the results
of competitive exams and final rankings”,
specifying that “sector regulations governing the timing and forms of publicity remain unaffected”.
The sector regulations referred to in the
mentioned passage of the Guidelines consist of the provisions that establish, in general, the
publicity of final measures and rankings concerning
competitions and selection tests aimed at recruitment and
hiring which, for the aforementioned reasons, are not
applicable to the case at hand (see note
62, cited Guidelines) as they concern, as clarified
by the Guarantor on numerous occasions, data
related to horizontal economic progressions (and,
in particular with the provision of January 26, 2023, no.
28, web document no. 9865528, also with the provision of July 6,
2023, no. 287, web document no. 9920145, but see also the provision
of April 13, 2023, no. 125, web document no. 9907846).
The aforementioned passage indeed refers to “other
procedures that conclude with the formation of
rankings” where they are provided for by special
sector provisions that also regulate the
advertising regime, which, however, cannot be invoked in this case.
The provisions contained in the “Municipal Regulation
for economic progression within the category” (approved by the resolution of the Municipal Council no. XX of XX, specifically Article 8) and those
contained in the announcement related to the aforementioned
progressions (approved by determination no. XX R.G.
XX of XX) cannot, in fact, be considered relevant, even
with regard to the quality and content of the source, as both do not meet the
requirements of a suitable legal basis pursuant to
Article 2-ter, paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Code (both in
the text prior to the amendments made by Decree Law of October 8, 2021, no. 139, which applies, according to
the principle tempus regit actum, to the case at hand,
and in the current text).
In this regard, it is highlighted that, within the framework of
European derivation of the data protection discipline and in the perspective of legal certainty,
as well as the principle of non-discrimination,
differentiated levels of protection of personal data are not permitted - neither on a territorial basis nor at the level of individual administration –
especially when, as in the case at hand, the matter has already been subject to balancing and
regulation by the legislator with uniform provisions at the national level. This also considers that the
Regulation provides that the legal basis for
processing must also be suitable in light of the
“constitutional order” of the Member State
(consideration 41 and see also Constitutional Court ruling no.
271/2005 based on which the discipline of
personal data protection falls within the exclusive state competence related to the
“civil order”), in compliance with the principle of
proportionality (Article 6, paragraph 3, letter b), of the
Regulation). These principles have been clarified on
numerous occasions by the Guarantor (see provisions no. 235
of April 11, 2024, web document no. 10019523; no. 588 of
September 26, 2024, in the process of publication and no. 125
of April 13, 2023, web document 9907846).
Similarly, it is not possible to invoke, as a suitable
condition for disseminating the aforementioned determinations,
containing the personal data of the complainant
and other interested parties, the consent of the
interested parties, also mentioned in Article 10 of the announcement,
as the processing of data even within the framework
of the employment relationship with a public entity,
finds its legal basis in the specific
**Sectoral and Non-Sectoral Discipline, Instead, in the Consent of the Interested Parties, Due to the Imbalance in the Relationship Between the Data Controller and the Interested Party (Consideration No. 43 and Article 88 of the Regulation; On this point, see, among many others, with specific regard to the public context, in general, see Provision No. 235 of April 11, 2024, web document No. 10019523, cited and the measures referred to therein; see also, in a conforming sense, EDPB Guidelines on Consent under EU Regulation 2016/679 - WP 259 - of May 4, 2020, specifically paragraph 3.1.1; Opinion 2/2017 on Data Processing in the Workplace, WP 249).**

**4. Conclusions.**  
In light of the evaluations mentioned above, it is noted that the statements made by the data controller during the investigation - the veracity of which may be subject to accountability under Article 168 of the Code - although deserving of consideration, do not allow for overcoming the objections notified by the Office with the initiation of the procedure and are insufficient to allow for the closure of the present procedure pursuant to the combined provisions of Articles 11 and 14 of the Garante Regulation No. 1/2019.  
Therefore, the preliminary evaluations of the Office are confirmed, and the illegality of the processing of personal data carried out by the Municipality is noted for having disseminated online the personal data of the complainant and the other participants in the aforementioned selection (about one hundred), through the publication on its institutional website of determinations No. XX of XX "XX" from XX to XX and No. XX of XX "XX" from XX to XX and related attachments, in the absence of an appropriate legal basis, in violation of Articles 5 and 6 of the Regulation and Article 2-ter of the Code.  
Considering that the violation of the aforementioned provisions occurred as a result of a single conduct, Article 83, paragraph 3, of the Regulation applies, according to which the total amount of the administrative pecuniary sanction does not exceed the amount specified for the most serious violation. Given that, in this case, the violations are all subject to the sanction provided for by Article 83, paragraph 5, of the Regulation, as also referred to by Article 166, paragraph 2, of the Code, the total amount of the sanction is to be quantified up to €20,000,000.  
In this context, considering, in any case, that the conduct has exhausted its effects, since the Municipality has removed from its institutional website since XX for determination No. XX of XX and since XX for determination No. XX of XX, the conditions for the adoption of further corrective measures under Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Regulation do not apply.  

**5. Adoption of the injunction order for the application of the administrative pecuniary sanction and accessory sanctions (Articles 58, paragraph 2, letter i and 83 of the Regulation; Article 166, paragraph 7, of the Code).**  
The Garante, pursuant to Articles 58, paragraph 2, letter i) and 83 of the Regulation as well as Article 166 of the Code, has the power to “impose an administrative pecuniary sanction pursuant to Article 83, in addition to [other] corrective measures [referred to in this paragraph, or in lieu of such measures, depending on the circumstances of each individual case” and, in this context, “the College [of the Garante] adopts the injunction order, which also provides for the application of the accessory administrative sanction of its publication, in whole or in part, on the Garante's website pursuant to Article 166, paragraph 7, of the Code” (Article 16, paragraph 1, of the Garante Regulation No. 1/2019).  
In this regard, considering Article 83, paragraph 3, of the Regulation, in this case, the violation of the cited provisions is subject to the application of the administrative pecuniary sanction provided for by Article 83, paragraph 5, of the Regulation.  
The aforementioned administrative pecuniary sanction imposed, depending on the circumstances of each individual case, must be determined in amount taking into due account the elements provided for by Article 83, paragraph 2, of the Regulation.  
Considering that:  
- the dissemination of personal data concerns about one hundred interested parties, although the publication of both determinations occurred for a limited period, having been published on the institutional website of the Municipality for a period of 15 days without being indexed on general search engines (cf. Article 83, paragraph 2, letter a), of the Regulation);  
- the publication did not concern personal data belonging to the special categories referred to in Article 9 of the Regulation or data relating to criminal convictions or offenses (cf. Article 83, paragraph 2, letter g), of the Regulation),  
it is believed that, in this case, the level of severity of the violation committed by the data controller is medium (cf. European Data Protection Board, “Guidelines 4/2022 on the calculation of administrative pecuniary sanctions pursuant to the GDPR” of May 24, 2023, point 60).  
That said, it is believed that, for the purposes of quantifying the sanction, the following mitigating circumstances should be taken into consideration:  
- there are no previous relevant violations committed by the data controller, having the...
same nature as those established in relation to the
complaint facts, or previous measures referred to
in Article 58 of the Regulation (Article 83, paragraph 2, letter
e) of the Regulation);
the Municipality has offered good cooperation with
the Authority during the investigation (see Article 83,
paragraph 2, letter f) of the Regulation).
In light of the aforementioned elements, assessed in their
entirety, it is deemed appropriate to determine the amount
of the monetary sanction at the sum of €10,000
(ten thousand) for the violation of Articles 5 and 6 of the
Regulation, as well as Article 2-ter of the Code, as an
administrative monetary sanction deemed, pursuant to
Article 83, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, effective,
proportionate, and dissuasive.
In this context, it is also considered that, pursuant to
Article 166, paragraph 7, of the Code and Article 16,
paragraph 1, of the Garante Regulation No. 1/2019, the
publication of this section containing the injunction order
on the Garante's website should proceed.
This is in consideration of the specific circumstance that
the aforementioned ranking contained personal data of
a significant number of interested parties (specifically,
approximately one hundred).
Finally, it is noted that the conditions referred to in
Article 17 of Regulation No. 1/2019 are met.
ALL OF THE ABOVE CONSIDERED, THE Garante
pursuant to Articles 57, paragraph 1, letter f) and 83 of
the Regulation, finds the unlawfulness of the processing
carried out by the Municipality of Motta Sant’Anastasia for
violation of Articles 5 and 6 of the Regulation, as well as
Article 2-ter of the Code, as stated in the reasoning;
ORDERS
the Municipality of Motta Sant’Anastasia, represented by
the legal representative pro tempore, with legal headquarters
at Piazza Umberto, 21, 95040 - Motta Sant'Anastasia
(CT), Tax Code 00575910872, to pay the sum of €10,000
(ten thousand) as an administrative monetary sanction for
the violations indicated in the reasoning;
ENJOINS
the aforementioned Municipality, in case of failure to resolve
the dispute pursuant to Article 166, paragraph 8,
of the Code, to pay the sum of €10,000
(ten thousand) according to the methods indicated in the
attachment, within 30 days from the notification of this
provision, under penalty of the adoption of the consequent
executive acts pursuant to Article 27 of Law No. 689/1981.
It is represented that, pursuant to Article 166, paragraph 8,
of the Code, the possibility for the
offender to resolve the dispute by payment -always according to the methods indicated in
the attachment- of an amount equal to half of the imposed
sanction within the term referred to in Article 10, paragraph
3, of Legislative Decree No. 150 of September 1, 2011, is preserved
for the filing of the appeal as indicated below;
DISPOSES
a) pursuant to Article 166, paragraph 7, of the Code and
Article 16, paragraph 1, of the Garante Regulation No.
1/2019, the publication of the injunction order
on the Garante's website;
b) pursuant to Article 154-bis, paragraph 3 of the Code and
Article 37 of the Garante Regulation No. 1/2019,
the publication of this provision on the Authority's website;
c) pursuant to Article 17 of the Garante Regulation
No. 1/2019, the annotation of the violations and the
measures adopted in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2 of
the Regulation, in the internal register of the Authority
provided for by Article 57, paragraph 1, letter u) of
the Regulation.
Pursuant to Articles 78 of the Regulation, 152 of the
Code, and 10 of Legislative Decree No. 150/2011, against this
provision it is possible to file an appeal
before the ordinary judicial authority, under penalty
of inadmissibility, within thirty days from the date of
communication of the provision itself or within
sixty days if the appellant resides abroad.
Rome, November 27, 2024

THE PRESIDENT
Stanzione
THE REPORTER
Scorza
THE SECRETARY GENERAL
Mattei