 

 

Moritz Körner 
Member of the European Parliament 
 
By e-mail only 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brussels, 7 July 2023 
Ref: OUT2023-0055 

Dear Mr Körner, 

Thank  you  for  your  letter  of  09  November  2022  as  regards  your  proposal  on  the  possibility  of 
establishing that all new laptops entering the EU market would need to be equipped with a physical 
camera cover based on Article 25 GDPR.  

I would like to use this opportunity to reaffirm the position stated in the EDPB’s letter of 16 June 2020 
as follows: 

The measures aimed at protecting and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of natural persons must 
be established by the controller. Although manufacturers should be encouraged to take into account 
the right to data protection when developing and designing such products, services and applications, 
they  are  not  responsible  for  the  processing  carried out  with  their  products1.  The  GDPR  does  not 
provide for means to establish legal obligations on manufacturers, unless they also act as controllers 
or processors. 

The GDPR does not specify any specific measure to fulfil the requirements of data protection by design 
and by default. Therefore, the controller shall choose the most appropriate measures according to the 
circumstances for the specific processing. As indicated in your letter, the physical camera cover is a 
tested, simple, cheap and efficient technology to prevent the camera from unduly collecting images. 
Nevertheless,  there  are  other  measures  that  could  also  be  taken  into  consideration,  inter  alia, 
incorporating a physical on/off switch, or an easy way to deactivate the camera. 

In addition, there are software solutions that can serve the same purpose and that give the control to 
the user. Nonetheless, the use of a software measure could present other associated risks, like bugs, 
introduction  of  unwanted  “features”  or  the  possibility  of  disabling  the  measure  through  remote 
access. 

 

                                                           
1 Recital (78) GDPR. 

 

 

 

 

 

To summarize, the objective of the controller shall be to provide sufficient guarantees to implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures in such manner that the processing will meet the 
requirements of the GDPR and ensure the protection of the rights of the data subjects. The controller 
shall  choose  the  most  appropriate  measures  for  each  specific  processing  according  to  the 
circumstances and following a risk assessment, in compliance with the GDPR. 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Anu Talus 

 

