1/44

 File No.: PS/00199/2022

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claiming party), dated ***DATE.1,
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter,
AEPD). The claim is directed, among others, against SOCIEDAD ESPAÑOLA DE
RADIODIFUSIÓN, S.L., with NIF B28016970 (hereinafter, the claimed party or the
BE). The reasons on which the claim is based are the following:

The complaining party reported that several media outlets published in
their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a rape
multiple, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case that was
very mediatic The complaining party provided links to the news published in
the websites of the claimed media, the one relating to the claimed party being:

***URL.1

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the claimant was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it was still available.

SECOND: Dated ***DATE.3, in accordance with article 65 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the claim was admitted for processing
submitted by the complaining party.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate of Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter GDPR), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, being aware of the
following extremes:

During the investigation actions, publications were found where it was possible to
hear the victim's voice without distortion. Regarding the claimed party, the
following post:

***URL.1

On ***DATE.4, the defendant was notified of a precautionary withdrawal measure
urgent content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/44

will be unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this was accessible
content.

On the same day of the aforementioned notification, the AEPD received a letter sent by
this entity reporting:

- That that same day the voice of the victim "included in the report" was distorted.
excerpt from the news, as well as in the full program of "Hoy por Hoy"." In addition,
“has stored an unaltered copy of the program to ensure its preservation,
in order to safeguard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the
police, judicial or administrative investigation that could be investigated.”

- That, additionally, it has informed the platforms with which the
SER is related to the change made as a consequence of the requirement of the
AEPD, requesting that they proceed to update the contents as soon as possible
possible.

- That you consider that there has not been a violation of the GDPR with the publication
of the audio object of the request, "but has made use of the constitutional right
to information in a case of general interest, in which, in addition, he has tried to
safeguard at all times the rights and interests of the Affected.”

It was found that the podcast had the victim's voice distorted, resembling
masculine.

FOURTH: On May 5, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (in
hereafter, LPACAP), for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, classified as
in article 83.5 of the GDPR.

The aforementioned initiation agreement was notified to the claimed party, in accordance with the rules
established in the LPACAP, on May 6, 2022.

FIFTH: With the registration date of May 10, 2022, the party
The defendant requested a copy of the file as well as an extension of the term to present
allegations.

On May 11, 2022, the file was forwarded to the defendant, granting the
At the same time, a new term to present allegations.

SIXTH: With the registration date of May 18, 2022, the claimed party
submitted a document in which it requested the sending of the documents annexed to the
applications submitted by D. A.A.A. with date ***DATE.1 and ***DATE.2, be the
texts of the claims themselves, whether they are documents for probative purposes
accompanied by the claimant, as well as an extension of the term to present
allegations.

On May 23, 2022, the defendant was sent a letter in which:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/44

- The complete proof of entry registration number was attached.
O00007128e2100015794 regarding the claim filed by D. A.A.A. he
***DATE.1,

- It was indicated that the rest of the documentation attached to the aforementioned claims
that the submission of the file forwarded on May 11, 2022 was not accompanied, it is
refers to links from other media that are not from the SER, which
not only does he not need them to exercise his right to defense, but it would imply having
access to documentation corresponding to other files in which it does not have the
condition of interested

- A new term was granted to present allegations.

SEVENTH: The claimed party submitted a pleadings brief on June 2, 2022,
in which, in summary, he stated:

1.- Nullity by operation of law due to the absolute lack of the procedure due to the absence of
active legitimation of the claimant, since he "has never tried to
justify with what active legitimacy he acts, since he is not the owner of the rights and
interests that are said to be affected, nor has it proven to act on their behalf.
representation.", for which reason it considers null acts of full right both the admission
to process the claim and the subsequent agreement to start the file
penalizer from which it derives.

Criticizes the lack of motivation regarding the legitimacy of the claimant in the resolution
of admission of the claim of *** DATE.3, as well as that the agreement to start the
procedure speak plainly of “complaining party” and “respondent party”.

It indicates that "the procedure that has been initiated is a consequence of what has been
called a claim, which is a specific procedure regulated in the
European data protection regulation. This is not a generic complaint.
that as recognized in article 62 5 of Law 39/2015 on administrative procedure
of the Public Administrations does not attribute by itself the condition of
concerned to the complainant, but has been attributed nothing less than the status of
party to the claimant, opening a disciplinary file in which,
paradoxically, the victim has not been given a hearing, who is the one who in his case
would have the right to do so, in accordance with article 63.3 of the LOPDGDD (…)”

It considers that "the admission of the claim as it has been formulated implies
a helplessness that is irremediable and that is not saved by the possibility of alleging,
that, without prejudice to the right of the AEPD to act ex officio once it becomes aware of certain
facts, if he considers them worthy of it, the truth is that the admission of the
claim made by someone who lacks legitimacy produces irreversible effects
in the processing of the disciplinary procedure for the defendant, unless the
file is archived and declared null and void all the proceedings:

1) Conditions the purpose of the file

 
a specific claim, on whose facts said file will deal.

 , since it starts from the existence of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/44

2) It interferes with the statute of limitations for possible infractions,
interrupting the established deadlines, when the
legal conditions for it.

3) Attributes the status of interested party to those who should not have it, with
power to file appeals at the end of the file, or argue before the
presented by the sanctioned party, in accordance with the provisions of articles
112 and 118 of Law 39/2015.”

2.- You have not infringed article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, since you understand that
the treatment that you have carried out is adequate, pertinent and limited to its purpose
informative, which was none other than to move public opinion and denounce the incisive
interrogation to which the victim had been subjected by the prosecutor.

He criticizes the balancing judgment between the fundamental right to freedom of
information and the fundamental right to the protection of personal data
who makes the initiation agreement because:

- The right to information holds a prevailing position when the
requirements of general interest and due veracity. He criticizes that the initial agreement
consider that the general interest has to concur both in the person involved
as in the matter to which the matter refers, despite the fact that the jurisprudence,
indicated by the claimed party, has clearly established that these are requirements
alternative, non-cumulative, citing in this regard the STS of the Plenary of the Chamber of
of October 15, 2015.

- (...) since the trial was held and the resulting information was published, no
there is no record that the victim was dissatisfied with the treatment
of the news about your case or that you believe you have been exposed to a
unwanted media coverage.” Adding that the victim's parents went to
a television program to talk about the case, blurring their faces but without
distort their voice, which implies a degree of voluntary public exposure that
must be taken into account with respect to own acts.

- Although it is not denied that the voice constitutes personal data in accordance with the provisions of
article 4 of the GDPR, considers that the possibilities of identifying
a person through the voice, limited to the closest family and affective environment,
already aware of the situation.

- "The recording came from an official source, by signal enabled to the media by the
Communication Office of the TSJ of ***CCAA.1 on the Webex platform (...), without
by said press office, any warning will be made regarding
personal data in accordance with the Communication Protocol of Justice, by not
considered that there was reason to have to do so.”

3.- Incorrect classification of the alleged infraction, since it considers that the classification
as a very serious offense by application of article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD results
absolutely generic and violates the principle of typicity in relation to that of
specialty.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/44

It understands that, "for dialectical purposes, if there is any infraction, what we discard,
it would be merely serious, in accordance with article 73 letter d)” of the LOPDGDD:

"d) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to effectively apply the principles of data protection from
the design, as well as the non-integration of the necessary guarantees in the treatment, in
the terms required by article 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

To this end, apart from transcribing the aforementioned article 25 of the GDPR, the part
claimed that "it would not in any case be an absolute or generic breach of the
rules or principles of personal data processing, but in dialectical terms,
a partial and specific non-compliance, in relation to the precise technical measures
to avoid the processing of an aspect of the personal data of the victim, whose
correction -technical as well- is precisely what, as a provisional measure, is
requested (…)”

It indicates that the consequence of the different classification is that the maximum sanction
applicable, in accordance with article 83.4.a) of the GDPR, is 50% lower than the
provided for very serious offenses that are included in article 83.5.a) of the
GDPR.

4.- Criticism of aggravating factors and omission of mitigating factors of the initiation agreement.

It criticizes that the initiation agreement applies article 83.2.a) of the GDPR as an aggravating circumstance,
because "neither the mere reproduction of the victim's voice, devoid of any other
collateral damage, made it recognizable by a third party, nor has it been shown
dissatisfied with the informative treatment of the case, at any time.” Add
that “distortion-free audio remained accessible for a short time and, furthermore,
It cannot be ignored that it was an accessory element to the text of the information, therefore
that only a minimal part of the readers of the news on the website reproduced
also the fragment of the recording”.

It considers that it did not act negligently, "since the discrepancy lies in the
consideration of fundamental rights in conflict in the process of transmission of
the information, in whose terms you may or may not agree, a very
other than acting unconsciously or negligently, which was not the case.
case." To this end, it insists on the specific newsworthiness of the audio content
to denounce the inadequate treatment given to the victim by the prosecutor and puts
revealed that practically all of the main media in the
country also carried out their informative treatment with the support of the recording of
the view with the voice of the participants in the trial.

He criticizes that the initial agreement, when referring to the aggravating circumstance of article 83.2.g) of the GDPR,
once again alludes to "the certain possibility of recognizing the victim of a crime as the
reporting the news", as well as referring again to the fact that the data is very
sensitive, both issues that he considers were already formulated in the first of the
aggravating factors.

It is missing that the following extenuating factors have not been taken into account:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/44

- Article 83.2.c) of the GDPR: "any measure taken by the person responsible or
in charge of the treatment to alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the
interested”.

- Article 83.2.f) of the GDPR: "the degree of cooperation with the control authority with
in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the
infringement".

He is motivated by the fact that the same day he received the request from the AEPD for the withdrawal of
the news or distortion of the victim's voice, “proceeded to distort the voice of the
published information and to communicate to that AEPD the execution of the requested measure,
that proactively communicated to all those online platforms with which the
chain shares content, so that they apply the same measure (since the SER does not
can do it) and therefore would be of maximum effectiveness. Similarly, in that
In writing, the serious discrepancy with the indicative qualification of the
facts as a violation of data protection regulations, given the necessary
consideration of the right to information exercised in its treatment.”

For all these reasons, it considers that there is a lack of justification of the amount of the sanction
provisionally proposed in 50,000 euros that justifies its proportionality in
in relation to the concurrent circumstances, "in view of the different rights
fundamentals involved, the legal debate that their simultaneous protection implies, the
widespread nature of similar processing of these same data by many other
relevant media, and the collaborative, brilliant and diligent conduct
of this company in response to the request made.”

EIGHTH: On September 30, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
sanction SOCIEDAD ESPAÑOLA DE RADIODIFUSION, S.L., with NIF B28016970,
for a violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR,
with a fine of €50,000 (fifty thousand euros).

As well as that by the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
confirm the following provisional measures imposed on SOCIEDAD ESPAÑOLA
OF RADIODIFUSION, S.L.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

NINTH: Notification of the proposed resolution in accordance with the established norms
in the LPACAP, the claimed party submitted a pleadings brief on October 17,
2022 in which, in summary, he stated the following:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/44

1.- Reiteration of nullity by operation of law due to the absolute lack of the procedure for
the absence of legal standing of the claimant, due to the lack of legal standing
active of the claimant.

The defendant considers that the proposed resolution errs in stating what
following:

"In this regard, it should be noted that this disciplinary proceeding has been
initiated ex officio on May 5, 2022, in accordance with article 63 of the
LPACAP and article 68 of the LOPDGDD, not having been issued regardless
totally and absolutely from the legally established procedure.

A different question is whether the admission of the claim, an act by another and prior to the
procedure that is now being processed, is null and void and if such nullity
contaminates the agreement to start the disciplinary procedure, as the party intends
claimed, since it derives from the foregoing.”

The claimed part understands that it is incorrect because:

1.- "The initiation agreement may well derive from the admission for processing of a
claim (...) well on the initiative of the AEPD. But if there is admission to
claim process can no longer speak of ex officio action, because it is
responding to a claim that has determined the birth of the process.”

2.- "It is not an alien and previous act because it is that admission that determines the initiation
of the file”.

The defendant reiterates that the "improper admission of the claim for processing
conditions everything that comes after: on the one hand, the facts on which the
file are those revealed by the claimant, who have simply subsequently
been examined by the Agency; on the other hand, they give rise to previous actions that
otherwise we do not know in your case when and in what terms they would have been carried out;
facilitates and accelerates the interruption of the prescription of any possible infringement, by
margin that this interruption takes place with the initiation of the file and gives rise,
finally, immediately and causally, to the adoption of provisional measures that
otherwise they would not have been adopted, since there was no ex officio action prior to
the claim.”

The defendant criticizes the fact that the proposed resolution indicates that "if there were
processed the claim as a mere complaint under article 62.5 of the
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations, the investigative actions would have been the same;
Leaving aside the fact that it is a mere hypothesis or speculation, in
disciplinary procedure, to which the general principles of the
criminal law, is not an admissible response.”

The foregoing is based on the defendant party that "the margin of action of the agency
before the mere complaint and before the claim admitted for processing is radically
different, according to Law”:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/44

- "Because the admission to processing implies, unless expressly decided by the file (...)
reasoned and once the previous proceedings have been completed, in your case, the agreement of
beginning of the disciplinary procedure.”

- While in the case of a complaint, "if there is no patrimonial damage to a
Public Administration, not starting the procedure is discretionary for the
Administration, which does not have to motivate him.”

Based on the foregoing, the defendant reiterates "both in the legal classification, not
denied, lack of standing, which should have led to the inadmissibility of
the claim for abusive, as in the consequence of nullity by operation of law, since
that the disciplinary procedure is absolutely flawed by that beginning so
highly illegal.”

2.- It is reiterated that it has not infringed article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, given
that you understand that the treatment you have carried out is adequate, pertinent and limited
with its informative purpose, which was none other than to transfer public opinion and
denounce the incisive interrogation to which the victim had been subjected by the prosecutor.

He considers that "the proposed resolution completely omits the necessary judgment of
weighting, assuming a maximalist position with regard to the protection of rights
to data protection above any consideration.”

The defendant understands that "in the same way that jurisprudence exempts the
information of the obligation of a "requirement of absolute precision in the expression
of difficult-to-obtain data” (STS 97/2013), since this would discourage the necessary
informative coverage of matters of general interest, it does not seem reasonable to require
rigorous data minimization and risk analysis prior to disclosure
each of the hundreds or thousands of news items that are disseminated daily with the
immediacy, urgency and breadth demanded by public opinion. If it were so, it
would restrict the channels of information unjustifiably in a State
democratic by law."

Considers that, despite the large volume of information prior to the publication
of the news that is the subject of this procedure, cannot be taken for granted, as
 “that previously had been supplied
makes the motion for a resolution,
“information about the victim” that later assisted in the identification of the victim to
through his voice.

It indicates that "the victim was not identified, and what the resolution proposal
called "materialized risk" are still remote hypotheses that have not been
come to fruition."

He criticizes that in the proposed resolution it is argued that "it is not possible to appreciate the doctrine of
their own acts in the case of parents, but it is hardly debatable that these facts
are part of the context of the news, and that the right to privacy has
legally recognized not only a personal but also a family aspect, for which reason
It is not inconsequential that the victim's parents went on television."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/44

It is reiterated that "The recording came from an official source, by signal enabled to the
media by the Communication Office of the TSJ of ***CCAA.1 on the Webex platform
(...), without any warning being made by said press office in
matter of personal data in accordance with the Justice Communication Protocol, to the
not consider that there was a reason to have to do so.”

3.- It reiterates the incorrect classification of the alleged infraction, since it considers
that the classification as a very serious offense by application of article 72.1.a) of the
LOPDGDD is absolutely generic and violates the principle of classification in
relation to specialty.

He criticizes the arguments of the proposed resolution, "since it is argued that the
typification suggested by this part is as if it did not exist, since it is stated in the
Organic Law and not in the European Regulation. The proposal indicates that said article
73 refers exclusively to the prescriptive terms of each infraction, depending on
of its seriousness, but not to infringing types, so it only falls to resort to the
types of the regulation in its article 83.”

It indicates that with the application of "article 73 (of the LOPDGDD) there are no
far from ignoring the types of article 83 of the Regulation. (...) deny the
virtuality of an organic law that defines offenses with reference to and respect for the
European Regulation is a power that the Instruction has arrogated, of
particularly arbitrary manner.”

It indicates that "it is not a matter of the victim's own narrative being a piece of information that
could be known, but that in the worst case the measures were not applied
techniques necessary to rule out that eventuality. That is why the offense never
may be the most serious, since listening to the victim was important, but in the
worst case scenario, technical caution was not adopted in the treatment of data that
it was relevant and likely to be published.”

4.- It refers to what is stated in the pleadings to the start-up agreement in
regarding his criticism of the aggravating circumstances invoked and the omission of certain
extenuating.

Criticizes that the proposed resolution does not take into account the mitigating factors invoked
by the claimed party:

- In the case of article 83.2.c) of the GDPR, because the measures adopted to alleviate
the alleged damages were not “spontaneous”.

- In the case of article 83.2.f) of the GDPR, because, although the action of the party
claimed derived from a requirement of the Agency, the degree of diligence in the
answer to it can be very different.

For all these reasons, it considers that there is a lack of justification of the amount of the sanction.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/44

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On ***DATE.1, the claimant filed a claim with the
AEPD denouncing that various media, including the part
claimed, published on their websites the audio of the statement before the judge of a
victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the celebration of the
trial in a case that was highly publicized, providing links to the news
published on the websites of the media claimed, being the one related to the part
claimed:

***URL.1

On ***DATE.2, a new letter sent by the claimant was received
stating that he had been able to verify that there were means that had eliminated
this information, although it accompanied publications made by some media
communication on Twitter where it was still available.

SECOND: The General Sub-directorate of Data Inspection, in the exercise of its
investigative activities, found a publication of the Respondent where
could hear the victim's voice undistorted at the following address:

***URL.1

THIRD: Within the framework of the previous investigation actions, with the date of
***DATE.4, the party claimed was notified of an urgent precautionary measure to withdraw
content or distorted voice of the intervener in such a way that it would be
unidentifiable in the web addresses from which this content was accessible, in
concrete of:

***URL.1

FOURTH: On ***DATE.4, the AEPD received a letter sent by this
reporting entity:

- That that same day he had proceeded to distort the voice of the victim "included in the
excerpt from the news, as well as in the full program of "Hoy por Hoy"." In addition,
“has stored an unaltered copy of the program to ensure its preservation,
in order to safeguard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the
police, judicial or administrative investigation that could be investigated.”

- That, additionally, it had informed the platforms with which the
SER is related to the change made as a consequence of the requirement of the
AEPD, requesting them to proceed to update the contents as soon as possible
possible.

- That you consider that there has not been a violation of the GDPR with the publication
of the audio object of the request, "but has made use of the constitutional right

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/44

to information in a case of general interest, in which, in addition, he has tried to
safeguard at all times the rights and interests of the Affected.”

FIFTH: It is proven in the report of previous actions of investigation of
dated January 24, 2022 that it was verified that the link ***URL.1 has
distorted the victim's voice, sounding male.

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Previously, the claimed party alleges nullity by operation of law for lack of
of the procedure due to the lack of legitimacy of the claimant, since
that he, as indicated in his allegations to the initiation agreement, "at no time
has tried to justify with what legitimacy it acts, since it is not the owner of the
rights and interests that are said to be affected, nor has it accredited acting on its behalf.
representation."

The defendant party continues to indicate in its allegations to the initiation agreement that "the
procedure that has been started is a consequence of what has been called
claim, which is a specific procedure regulated in the European Regulation
of data protection. This is not a generic complaint, which, as recognized by the
article 62 5 of Law 39/2015 of common administrative procedure of the
Public Administrations does not attribute by itself the condition of interested party to the
denouncer, but nothing less than the status of party to the
claimant, opening a disciplinary file in which, paradoxically, there is no
has given a hearing to the victim, who is the one who in his case would have the right to do so,
in accordance with article 63.3 of the LOPDGDD (…)”

In this regard, it should be noted that this disciplinary proceeding has been
initiated ex officio on May 5, 2022, in accordance with article 63 of the
LPACAP and article 68 of the LOPDGDD, not having been issued regardless
totally and absolutely from the legally established procedure.

However, the foregoing has been criticized by the defendant in its writ of
allegations to the proposed resolution, indicating that "the initiation agreement may
derive either from the admission of a claim for processing (...) or from the claim itself

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/44

AEPD initiative. But if there is admission to the claim process, you can no longer
speak of acting ex officio.”

In view of the foregoing, it can be deduced that the defendant confuses what the
agreement to start a disciplinary procedure with the actions prior to such
start agreement:

- It cannot be ignored that the aforementioned articles 63.1 of the LPACAP and 68 of the
LOPDGDD point out that the agreement to initiate all procedures
sanctions is always adopted ex officio.

- A different matter is the channel through which the AEPD becomes aware of an alleged
violation of data protection regulations, because it can not only be
through a claim, but also by any other means, including the complaint
as regulated in article 62 of the LPACAP, which gives rise to the fact that the
AEPD acts, prior to the adoption of the agreement to start the procedure
disciplinary action, "by own initiative", which is defined in article 59 of the
LPACAP as "the action derived from direct or indirect knowledge of the
circumstances, behaviors or facts that are the object of the procedure by the body that has
attributed the competence of initiation.”

In fact, prior investigation actions are not only carried out when
a claim has been admitted for processing, except whenever they are necessary for a
better determination of the facts and circumstances, as indicated in article 67 of the
the LOPDGDD: "Before the adoption of the agreement to start the procedure, and once
Once the claim has been admitted for processing, if any, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data may carry out prior investigation actions (...)" (underlining is
our).

In short, the admission for processing of the claim, as indicated in the
resolution proposal, is an alien act and prior to the disciplinary procedure, if
Although the claimed party does not share this idea in its allegations to the proposal of
resolution.

And he does not share it because, he understands, that the "admission for processing of the claim
conditions everything that comes after: on the one hand, the facts on which the
file are those revealed by the claimant, who have simply subsequently
been examined by the Agency; on the other hand, they give rise to previous actions that
otherwise we do not know in your case when and in what terms they would have been carried out;
facilitates and accelerates the interruption of the prescription of any possible infringement, by
margin that this interruption takes place with the initiation of the file and gives rise,
finally, immediately and causally, to the adoption of provisional measures that
otherwise they would not have been adopted, since there was no ex officio action prior to
the claim.”

As already stated in the proposed resolution, if the AEPD had processed the
briefs presented by D. A.A.A. as complaints under article 62.5 of the
LPACAP, would also have carried out the previous investigation actions that
has been carried out under article 67 of the LOPDGDD, after which it was verified

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/44

that the complained party had published the victim's voice without distortion, adopting
the corresponding provisional measures.

The foregoing is criticized by the defendant in its statement of allegations to the proposal of
resolution because it considers that "the margin of action of the agency before the mere
complaint and before the claim admitted for processing is radically different, according to Law":

- "Admission for processing implies, unless expressly decided by the file (...)
reasoned and once the previous proceedings have been completed, in your case, the agreement of
beginning of the disciplinary procedure.”

- While in the case of a complaint, "if there is no patrimonial damage to
a Public Administration, not starting the procedure is discretionary for the
Administration, which does not have to motivate him.”

We cannot share the arguments of the claimed party since, as
Article 47 of the LOPDGDD states, "It corresponds to the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection supervise the application of this organic law and the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and, in particular, exercise the functions established in article 57 and the
powers provided for in article 58 of the same regulation, in this law
organic and in its development provisions.” In other words, if the AEPD has
knowledge of an alleged infringement of the regulations on the protection of
data, you cannot stop acting, which is why if you receive a complaint you must
carry out the corresponding preliminary investigation actions to determine if
the facts and circumstances denounced justify the processing of a procedure
sanction, and even, if appropriate, may adopt the provisional measures that
deem appropriate.

In any case, it means that the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, as
control authority, its mission is to "supervise the application of this
Regulation, in order to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of
natural persons with regard to processing and to facilitate the free movement of
personal data in the Union", in accordance with article 51 of the GDPR and develops
more specifically article 57 of the same legal text, including the
functions of the control authorities. It is specified, in this way, what is the good
guaranteed by the control authorities.

In view of this, we can only banish that the "patrimonial damage to a
Public Administration" alleged by the claimed party is in no case the property
protected by the Spanish Data Protection Agency or what it determines,
where appropriate, the ex officio initiation of a disciplinary procedure.

In conclusion, it is not a mere hypothesis or speculation, as understood by the party
claimed, that the proposed resolution states that "if the AEPD had processed
the writings presented by D. A.A.A. as complaints under article 62.5 of
the LPACAP, would also have carried out the previous investigative actions that
has been carried out under article 67 of the LOPDGDD, after which it was verified
that the respondent party had published the undistorted voice of the victim.”

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/44

Since it is established that this disciplinary proceeding has been
initiated ex officio on May 5, 2022, in accordance with article 63 of the
LPACAP and article 68 of the LOPDGDD, and, therefore, it has not been issued
disregarding totally and absolutely the legally established procedure, as well
as the admission of the claim is an alien act and prior to the procedure
that is now being processed, it remains to determine if such admission of the claim is
null and void and if such nullity contaminates the agreement to start the procedure
sanctioning, as claimed by the defendant.

To this end, the claimed party points out in its pleadings to the agreement of
start that the admission of the claim is null and void because "it implies a
defenselessness that is irremediable and that cannot be saved by the possibility of alleging” because
conditions the purpose of the file, interferes with the prescription regime of the
possible infringements and attributes the condition of interested party to those who should not
have it.

While in the pleadings to the motion for resolution indicates the part
claimed that the disciplinary procedure is applicable to the general principles
of criminal law, in such a way that "it is a right to effective judicial protection
of Article 24 CE in its administrative aspect, which due to lack of due care and
legal precision in the processing of the file, has been violated, with effective
helplessness because my principal has been placed in a situation as part of
claimed, which would not have been the same as if it had been a mere denounced party.”

It should be noted that the principles of the sanctioning power are found
regulated in Chapter III of the Preliminary Title of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on
Legal Regime of the Public Sector. While, on the other hand, the jurisprudence of
has repeatedly stated that "the inspiring principles of the criminal order are of
application, with certain nuances, to the sanctioning Administrative Law, given that
both are manifestations of the punitive order of the State” (Sentences of the
Supreme Court of September 29, and November 4 and 10, 1980; Judgment of
Constitutional Court 18/1981, among others. The underlining is ours), that is, that the
The assimilation of penalizing Administrative Law to Criminal Law is not absolute.

Thus, in relation to what constitutes effective material defenselessness for the purposes of
determine the nullity of an administrative act, the jurisprudence is clear in this regard.
For all, the Constitutional Court Judgment 25/2011, of March 14, or the
Ruling of the Constitutional Court 62/2009, of March 9, reminds us that the
defenselessness constitutes a material notion that is characterized by assuming a
deprivation or substantial reduction of the right to defense; a noticeable loss of
the principles of contradiction and equality of the parties that prevents or hinders
seriously give one of them the possibility of alleging and accrediting in the process their own
right, or dialectically replicate the opposite position on equal terms
with the other procedural parties.

In other words, "in order for defenselessness to be considered with constitutional relevance,
that places the interested party outside of any possibility of alleging and defending in the
process their rights, a merely formal violation is not enough, but it is
necessary that a material effect of defenselessness be derived from that formal infraction,
with real impairment of the right of defense and with the consequent real damage and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/44

effective for the interests of the affected party" (STC 185/2003, of October 27 and STC
164/2005, of June 20).

This criterion is ratified in the Judgment of the National Court of its Chamber of
Administrative Litigation, Section 1, of June 25, 2009 (rec. 638/2008) to
determine that "this Chamber has reiterated on numerous occasions (SAN 3-8-2006,
Rec. 319/2004, for all), echoing the doctrine of the Constitutional Court,
In order for the procedural defect to lead to the nullity of the appealed act, it is necessary
that these are not mere procedural irregularities, but defects that
cause a situation of defenselessness of a material nature, not merely a formal one, this
is, that they have caused the appellant a real impairment of his right
defense, causing real and effective damage (SSTC 155/1988, of July 22,
212/1994, of July 13 and 78/1999, of April 26)”.

In other words, for the interested party to see himself, in effect, in a situation of
defenselessness, it is necessary that the defenselessness be material and not merely formal
(Sentences of the Constitutional Court 90/1988, 181/1994, 314/1994, 15/1995,
126/1996, 86/1997 and 118/1997, among others), which implies that the aforementioned defect has
caused real and effective damage to the defendant in his possibilities of
defense (Sentences of the Constitutional Court 43/1989, 101/1990, 6/1992 and
105/1995, among others).

Or, in terms of the Supreme Court Judgment of February 1, 1992, "as it has
declared this Chamber ... not all the defects or infractions committed in the processing
of an administrative procedure have sufficient legal entity to cover a
annulment claim for formal cause, given that only very serious defects that
prevent the final act from reaching its end or that render the interested parties defenseless
may determine the voidability; constituting this a jurisprudential doctrine that
has been progressively reducing the vices that determine disability for
limit them to those that represent an effective, real and significant decrease in
guarantees" (STS of April 15, 1996, RA 3276)".

In the case examined, there has been no reduction in the exercise of the
right of defense of the claimed party, since it has been able to allege and prove throughout
of the disciplinary procedure what has been agreed upon by his right.

Furthermore, the motivation carried out by the party cannot be shared.
claimed regarding irremediable defenselessness because:

- In the first place, as we said before, if the AEPD had processed the
briefs presented by D. A.A.A. as complaints under article 62.5 of the
LPACAP, would also have carried out the previous investigation actions that
has been carried out under article 67 of the LOPDGDD, after which it was verified
that the respondent party had posted the undistorted voice of the victim.

- Secondly, the statute of limitations for offenses is not interrupted by the
admission to processing of a claim, but when the agreement to start the
disciplinary procedure, as indicated in article 75 of the LOPDGDD.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/44

- Thirdly, the admission of a claim for processing does not confer the condition of
concerned to the claimant, since only the person who
comply with the provisions of article 4 of the LPACAP.

For these reasons, the admission of the claim, regardless of the procedure
sanctioning, does not suffer from nullity by operation of law that could contaminate the
agreement to start the disciplinary procedure.

II

The claimed party considers that it has not infringed article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR, since you understand that the treatment you have carried out is adequate,
pertinent and limited to its informative purpose, which was none other than to transfer to the
public opinion and denounce the incisive interrogation to which the victim had been
submitted by the prosecutor.

Currently, the claimed party maintains in its digital newspaper a podcast in format
audio of a radio program in which the presenter and a journalist
report on the interrogation to which the victim had been subjected by the
prosecutor, criticizing his actions. To the aforementioned information, are accompanied
fragments of the aforementioned interrogation in which the voice of the victim is distorted
while that of the prosecutor remains undistorted.

In view of the audio, it becomes clear that the victim's voice is not necessary to
manage to convey to the listener the prosecutor's lack of empathy, it is enough to hear the questions
that he does to the victim as well as the information added by the presenter and the
journalist, who are the ones who really lead the listener to empathize with the victim and
wonder about their revictimization.

To a greater extent we have to mean that it is indifferent that the purpose of the
means of communication by publishing the audio with the voice of the victim without distorting
was to denounce the actions of the prosecutor, because the truth is that with the dissemination of
the voice of that one is identified, putting her at a certain risk of being identified by
people who were unaware of their status as victims, a risk that should have been
valued by the media and for which it is responsible.

Victims of sexual assaults, such as gang rape, have to face
the challenge of resuming his life once the trial is over, trying to overcome the
physical and psychological sequelae derived from the traumatic experience they have suffered.
In this sense, your environment plays a decisive role. Unfortunately, even today
produce situations in which they are stigmatized despite having been the
victims, sometimes even being forced to change their place of residence.

For this reason, it is essential to treat with the greatest care any personal data that
allows you to reveal your identity, prevent you from being recognized as a victim in your environment,
understood in a broad sense. Here the medium plays a decisive role.
communication, since the risk analysis that must be carried out prior to the
publication, and which in the present case we are not aware of, is the last guarantee with which
account the victim.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/44

Despite the foregoing, the claimed party considers in its writ of
allegations to the proposed resolution that "in the same way as the jurisprudence
exempts the information from the obligation of a "requirement of absolute precision in the
expression of difficult-to-obtain data” (STS 97/2013), given that this would deter the
necessary informative coverage of matters of general interest, it does not seem
reasonable to require rigorous data minimization and risk analysis prior to
the diffusion of each one of the hundreds or thousands of news items that are disseminated daily
with the immediacy, urgency and breadth demanded by public opinion. If it were so,
the channels of information would be restricted unjustifiably in a State
democratic by law."

However, the aforementioned STS 97/2013, while not requiring "absolute precision
in the expression of difficult-to-obtain data", requires "reasonable diligence on the part of
of the informer to contrast the news according to professional guidelines
adjusting to the circumstances of the case”. Similarly, in terms of protection
of data, the media are required to be especially diligent in the
compliance with the regulations in this regard because they are entities that
constant and abundant handle data of a personal nature (Sentence of the Hearing
National of October 17, 2007).

GDPR compliance management includes conceiving and planning a
processing of personal data, which requires, among other issues, to incorporate ab
initio risk management in terms of data protection within the organization
by the controller (article 24.1 of the GDPR). And this based on
privacy by design and by default (article 25 of the GDPR) and to comply with the
principles of processing (article 5 of the GDPR).

In this regard, as established in the Risk Management and Risk Assessment Guide
impact on personal data processing by the AEPD, "Risk management is
formed by a set of ordered and systematized actions with the purpose of
control the possible (probability) consequences (impacts) that an activity
may have over a set of goods or elements (assets) that must be
protected. … The GDPR demands the identification, evaluation and mitigation, carried out
objectively, of the risk to the rights and freedoms of people in the
processing of personal data”,

It constitutes one more obligation than those legally attributed to the person responsible for the
treatment, among many others that are legally imposed within
data protection or unrelated to it and that must comply with the same diligence.

On the other hand, the defendant party, in its allegations to the initial agreement, criticizes the
balance judgment between the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information and the
Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data carried out by the aforementioned
home agreement for various reasons:

- In the first place, the defendant exposes that the right to information holds
a prevailing position when the requirements of general interest are met and the
due veracity.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/44

For this reason, the defendant continues to criticize that the initial agreement considers that
the general interest must concur both in the person who intervenes and in the
matter to which the matter refers, despite the fact that the jurisprudence indicates the part
claimed, it has clearly established that these are alternative requirements, not
cumulative, citing in this regard the STS of the Plenary of the Civil Chamber of 15
October 2015.

The aforementioned sentence, in its sixth law basis, states that
“Certainly, criminal events are newsworthy by their very nature, with
regardless of the condition of private subject of the person or persons affected
for the news (SSTC 178/1993, of May 31, FJ 4; 320/1994, of November 28,
FJ 5; 154/1999, of September 14, FJ 4). In general, it is in the public interest to
information both on the results of police investigations, the development
of the process and the content of the sentence, as on all those data, still not
directly linked to the exercise of the “ius puniendi” [penalizing power] of the
State, <<that allow a better understanding of your human profile or, more
simply, of its vital content>> of the person who participates in the act
criminal (STC 154/1999). Likewise, this Chamber, in its judgments no. 946/2008, of
October 24, and 547/2011, of July 20, has considered justified the publication of
identity data of those involved in criminal acts.” (underlining is ours),

If we go to the underlined sentences, we find that:

- In the case of STC 154/1999, of September 14, the data that had been
published were those of a person accused of a crime of sexual abuse,
regarding which, it was indicated "that, although they did not affect a person with
public projection as Professor Mr. J.R., yes they had reached public
notoriety and were the subject of a police investigation and prosecution
in criminal proceedings, with obvious social significance, given that they were accused of
said person criminal conduct such as the alleged rape and abuse
dishonest acts of mentally deficient students, enrolled in the School of
Special Education "San Francisco", in the city of Vigo, center where the
accused imparted the discipline of speech therapy.”

- In the case of STS No. 946/2008, of October 24, the published data is
They referred to a person arrested for belonging to a drug trafficking network
dismantled: “In the case, the nature of the crime (drug trafficking) of
extraordinary importance and social transcendence (STC 158/2003, of 15
September ), and all the more if one takes into account the magnitude of the operation
of disarticulation of an international network or organization (they intervened
eight thousand ecstasy pills, five thousand doses of speed, a pistol and fifty
cartridges and stamps and stamps to falsify documentation, and a large quantity
of money in Spanish currency and currencies), justify not only the public interest
of the information, but even the one that expresses the data of
identity of the detainees, instead of the simple initial letters of their
Name and surname."

- Finally, STS No. 547/2011, of July 20, refers to the publication of
data of a person accused of a crime of injuries and ill-treatment, sentence that was
refers to the previous one: "As this Chamber already said in its judgment of October 24,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/44

of 2008, RC no. º 651/2003, the nature of the crime (in this case it was
drug trafficking) of extraordinary importance and social transcendence justify
not only the special public interest of the information, but even that which is
express the identity data of the detainees, instead of the simple letters
initials of your first and last name."

That is to say, that the cases in which the jurisprudence has considered justified the
publication of data of people without public relevance when the newsworthy event does
is in the public interest, is when it concerns people who have been detained,
indicted or accused of a crime with social significance.

Without prejudice to its more detailed examination in the Fundament of Law IX of
this resolution, crime victims are not on the same level of equality as
people who have committed them, as stated in the V Law Foundation of the
startup agreement. Among the judgments referred to in the aforementioned
foundation of law, we will highlight the Judgment of the Supreme Court, of its Chamber
First of the Civil, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec. 3318/2014), which in relation
with the capture and dissemination in court of the image of a victim of violence against
gender provided that "3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the
general interest and public relevance of information on criminal cases
(judgment 547/2011, of July 20), which are accentuated in cases of physical abuse and
psychological (judgments 128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but
He has also pointed out, regarding the identification of the people involved
at trial, that the defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing,
Well, as for him, a complete identification is possible, and not only by his initials,
due to the nature and social significance of the crimes of ill-treatment (judgment
547/2011, of July 20). (underlining is ours).

For these reasons, the interpretation made by the claimed party cannot be shared.
that the requirement of general interest is met in this case, and therefore
Therefore, that there is a prevalence of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information on the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data of the
victim, since the prevalence is neither absolute nor general and requires, in any case,
a weighting that we are not aware that the communication medium has carried out.

- The claimant continues stating that "it has elapsed (...) since the
holding of the trial and the publication of the resulting information, there is no
evidence that the victim was dissatisfied with the treatment of the
news about your case or that you feel you have been exposed to coverage
unwanted media.”

However, it must be remembered that, even without a manifestation of disagreement on the part of
of the victim, the claimed party has the obligation to respect the relative principles
to the processing of personal data contemplated in article 5 of the GDPR, among the
that the principle of data minimization is found, and be able to prove it in
based on the principle of proactive responsibility (article 5.2 of the GDPR). In
Consequently, the absence of disagreement does not imply that the Fundamental Right
Freedom of Information prevails over the Fundamental Right to Protection
of Personal Data.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/44

- The claimed party indicates that the victim's parents attended a
television to talk about the case, blurring their faces but without distorting their
voice, which implies a degree of voluntary public exposure that must be taken into account.
account with respect to one's own acts.

Such thesis cannot be shared, since the will of such people is clear.
that they are not identified in any of the ways, because otherwise, their
image would not have been blurred.

Furthermore, the theory of proper acts applies only in relation to a subject that
shows his will through externalized acts, whose subsequent conduct must
Be consistent with previous acts. That is, that in application of the theory of acts
own, the actions of third parties are indifferent. In the Court's own words
Constitutional, the doctrine of own acts "means the link of the author of
a declaration of will, generally of a tacit nature [...] and the impossibility of
later adopt a contradictory behavior” (STC 73/1988, of April 21).

In the case examined, the action of the victim's parents (third parties) is
outside and independent of the actions of the victim herself and cannot be used
to apply the theory of own acts.

However, the foregoing is criticized by the defendant in its allegations to the
motion for a resolution because "it is little questionable that these facts form part of the
context of the news, and that the right to privacy has a legally recognized
aspect not only personal but also family, so it is not insignificant that
the parents of the victim went on television.”

In this regard, it should be noted that, unlike what happens with the right to
privacy, the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data does not
has such a family aspect, in such a way that the fact that the parents of the victim
went to a television program does not have to imply that the victim does not deserve
that your personal data be protected when treatments such as
prosecuted in this file and, therefore, that the law must prevail
Fundamental to Freedom of Information on the Fundamental Right to
Personal data protection.

- The defendant does not deny that the voice constitutes personal data in accordance with the
provided for in article 4 of the GDPR, although it considers that the possibilities are scarce
to identify a person through the voice, limited to the family and affective environment
closest, already aware of the situation, which is why the
Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information on the Fundamental Right to
Personal data protection.

Nor can this statement be shared, since the environment of a person
It can have very different fields (close family, distant family, educational,
social...), in such a way that it cannot be deduced that everyone who is in
conditions to recognize the voice, previously knew his status as a victim of
a multiple violation, circumstance, as previously stated, is
essential for the victim to remain unknown.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/44

Furthermore, the voice can allow a segment to identify the victim.
greater than the population if combined with other data, including information
additional, depending on the context in question. In the case examined, there is
a greater ease of making the victim identifiable through his voice in response to
the circumstances of the event and the context in which it is made public: within the framework
of a highly publicized judicial procedure, continuously followed by various
media that provide information about the victim, his
environment, the violators, and the violation suffered (which makes up information
additional).

However, the claimed party considers in its pleadings to the proposal
resolution, which, despite the existence of a large volume of information prior to the
publication of the news object of this procedure, cannot be taken for granted
provided that "information about the victim" had previously been provided that
then help identify the victim through his voice.”

In this regard, it is necessary to bring up Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of data
personnel of the Article 29 Working Group, which states that "In cases where
that, at first sight, the available identifiers do not allow us to single out a
particular person, that person may still be "identifiable" because that information
combined with other data (whether the data controller has
knowledge of them as otherwise) will allow that person to be distinguished from others”. (he
underlining is ours). That is, it is irrelevant if that additional information is prior
or after the publication of the news, as well as if it has not been disseminated by the party
claimed or unknown.

And it is that for a person to be identifiable it is not necessary that all the
information that allows the interested party to be identified must be in the possession of a
single person, as indicated in the CJEU Judgment of October 19, 2016, in the
Case C-582/14, in the procedure between Patrick Breyer and the Bundesrepublik
Deutschland: "for a piece of data to be classified as "personal data", in the sense
of Article 2(a) of that Directive, it is not necessary that all the information that
allows the interested party to be identified must be in the possession of a single person.” (he
underlining is ours).

In conclusion, the publication of the personal data of the victim's voice by itself and without
distorting put her at a certain risk of being identified by people who
were unaware of his status as a victim, despite the fact that the party claimed in his brief
of allegations to the proposed resolution indicates that what it "describes" risk
materialized” are still remote hypotheses that have not come to fruition”.

Regardless of the fact that the proposed resolution has never referred to "risk
materialized”, but rather that “The risk materializes with the fact that a single
person can identify the victim", which is very different, the important thing is not whether
such a risk has materialized or not, but whether there is a risk that someone who overhears
the victim's voice without distortion, identify it.

In other words, it makes no difference whether or not someone has identified the victim through his
voice, because the truth is that there was a certain risk that someone would identify it, which
which is a particularly serious event in an event such as the one that gives rise to the news,

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/44

Therefore, in this case and with these circumstances, there cannot be a prevalence
absolute of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information on the Right
Fundamental to the Protection of Personal Data of the victim.

- The last allegation made by the defendant party to justify that in the present
case, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information must prevail over the
Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data of the victim, is that "The
recording came from an official source, by signal enabled to the media by the Office
of Communication of the TSJ of ***CCAA.1 on the Webex platform (...), without
part of said press office will issue any warning regarding
personal data in accordance with the Communication Protocol of Justice, by not
considered that there was reason to have to do so.”

Beforehand, we must clarify what is the data processing that is being
analyzed in this proceeding. For these purposes, the GDPR defines in its
Article 4.2 the processing of personal data: "any operation or set of
operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data, whether
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration, organization,
structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation,
utilization,
 communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, comparison or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction”. (he
underlining is ours).

And it is the diffusion of the voice of the victim that the claimed party has carried out that is
object of this procedure, not entering within the scope of this other
Treatments, such as that carried out by the Court.

Once the treatment to be analyzed is delimited, we must identify who is the
responsible for it.

Article 4.7) of the GDPR establishes that it is ""responsible for the treatment" or
"responsible": the natural or legal person, public authority, service or other
body that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of processing; Yeah
the law of the Union or of the Member States determines the aims and means of the
treatment, the person responsible for the treatment or the specific criteria for its
appointment may be established by law of the Union or of the States
members;".

As established in Directives 07/2020 of the European Protection Committee
of Data on the concepts of data controller and manager in the
GDPR, the concept has five main components: "the natural person or
legal entity, public authority, service or other body”, “determines”, “alone or together with
others”, “the purposes and means” and “of the treatment”.

In addition, the concept of data controller is a broad concept, which deals with
to ensure effective and complete protection for the interested parties. It has determined so
the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice of the European Union. For all we will quote the
Judgment of the CJEU in the Google-Spain case of May 13, 2014, C-131/12, the
which considers in a broad sense the person responsible for the treatment to guarantee
“an effective and complete protection of the interested parties”.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/44

It is clear that the claimed party is responsible for the treatment, when deciding on the
purposes and means of processing, as it holds the power to do so by having a
decisive influence on themselves. In this way, the purpose is informative and the
The media encompass decision-making power from the way it is distributed or made available
information available to the public, including its content. the middle of
communication has, in order to fulfill its purpose, once in the
exercise of his journalistic work has collected all the precise information, what
information provided and by what means, in what terms and with what personal data.

Thus, Guidelines 07/2020 on the concepts of data controller and
in charge in the RGPD specify that "the person in charge of the treatment is the party that
determines why the processing is taking place (i.e. “for what purpose” or “what for”) and
how this objective will be achieved (that is, what means will be used to achieve it)”.

The court, which, as indicated, carries out a treatment
that is not the subject of this sanctioning file, provides the media with
communication the information available in its entirety, so that they,
subsequently, they can exercise the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information.

When the information reaches the media, the latter, as the person in charge
of the treatment, in the exercise of its proactive responsibility, must prove that
has complied, complies and will comply with the regulations on protection
of data.

That the Communication Office of the TSJ of ***CCAA.1 not issue a warning
any in terms of data protection in accordance with the Communication Protocol of
Justice cannot assume that there is a prevalence of the Fundamental Right to
Freedom of Information on the Fundamental Right to Data Protection
Personal, since the warning that the court can make is a mere
recommendation, not a mandate.

As indicated, it corresponds to the media, as the
responsible for the treatment, decide what and how public. I might decide to post the
information despite the warning received, choose not to publish or decide
distort the victim's voice in order to prevent it from being recognized, even in the case of
not having received any warning in this regard.

It can be concluded that the warning does not prevent the publication of personal data,
In the same way that the absence of it does not legitimize to publish all the data
personal. Nor does it exempt you from the obligation to carry out a risk analysis
prior to the publication of the news.

In case of following the interpretation defended by the defendant, the treatment that
carried out by the means of communication would be totally subordinated or conditioned
by the indications received from the judicial body, this not being the case.

This last line of argument of the claimed party is not consistent with the
Section 6 of the 2020 Justice Communication Protocol, regarding the protection
of personal data, which refers to the transmission, by the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/44

Communication Offices, from the text of the judicial decision to the media
social comunication.

This section contains the text of a warning about the responsibility of the
means of communication in the dissemination of personal data contained in the text of the
judicial resolution, which must be included in all shipments to
media:

“This communication cannot be considered as the official publication of a
public document. The communication of personal data contained in
the attached judicial resolution, not previously dissociated, is carried out in compliance
of the institutional function that article 54.3 of Regulation 1/2000, of July 26,
of the governing bodies of the courts, attributes to this Office of Communication,
for the exclusive purposes of their eventual treatment for journalistic purposes in the
terms provided for in article 85 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European Union and of the Council, of April 27, 2016, regarding the protection of persons
physical with regard to the processing of personal data.

In any case, the provisions of the data protection regulations will apply.
of a personal nature to the treatment that the recipients of this information carry out
out of the personal data contained in the attached judicial resolution, which does not
may be transferred or communicated for purposes contrary to the law.” (underlining is
our).

In conclusion, in the case examined there must not be a prevalence of the Law
Fundamental to Freedom of Information on the Fundamental Right of
Protection of Personal Data of the victim. Which does not mean, as has
interpreted the claimed party in its statement of allegations to the proposal of
resolution, that "a maximalist position regarding the protection of personal data" be adopted
personal above any consideration. Because, as stated by the
Basis of Law VI of the initiation agreement and in the Basis of Law V of
the motion for a resolution, what must exist is a balance between both rights
to achieve the achievement of the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information without
distort the Fundamental Right to Protection of Personal Data of the victim,
reconciliation between both rights that is not new, since the European legislator
mandates such conciliation in article 85 of the GDPR.

It should be remembered that this file has not been opened because it is considered that
the information should not be published, but because, in application of the principle of
data minimization regulated in article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, the
publication adopting the necessary precautions so that they are not affected
the rights of the victim, while reporting on the development of the process
court in question. For this purpose, the respondent party should have made a
weighting prior to the publication of the information, as well as a risk analysis
prior to such publication, which has not been carried out by the party
claimed, in accordance with what was stated in his statement of allegations to the proposal of
resolution. Such an analysis would have allowed him to identify which were the risks that were
derived from posting the undistorted voice of the victim, trying to avoid
that they existed or reducing them to the minimum expression, which in the end would have
supposed to have duly complied with article 5.1.c) of the GDPR.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/44

IV.

The complaining party considers that the classification of the infringement as very serious for
application of article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD is absolutely generic and
violates the principle of typicity in relation to that of specialty, understanding that
"If there is any infraction, what we rule out would be merely serious, according to the
article 73 letter d)” of the LOPDGDD:

"d) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to effectively apply the principles of data protection from
the design, as well as the non-integration of the necessary guarantees in the treatment, in
the terms required by article 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

In this regard, it should be noted that breaches of data protection
They are typified in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the GDPR. It is a typification
by referral, fully admitted by our Constitutional Court. In this
In this sense, article 71 of the LOPDGDD also makes a reference to them when
point out that "The acts and conducts referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law”.

In this sense, the Opinion of the Council of State of October 26, 2017, regarding
to the Draft Organic Law for the Protection of Personal Data,
provides that "The European Regulation does typify, even though it does so in a sense
generic, conduct constituting an infringement: in effect, sections 4, 5 and 6 of
its article 83 transcribed above contains a catalog of infractions for violation
of the precepts of the European standard that are indicated in such sections. Article 72
of the Preliminary Draft assumes, not in vain, the existence of said catalogue, when it has
that "infractions are acts and behaviors that imply a violation of the
content of sections 4, 5 and 6 of the European Regulation and of this law
organic”.”

The offenses established in articles 72, 73 and 74 of the LOPDGDD are only for
effects of the prescription, as stated in the beginning of each and every one of these
precepts. This need arose in our State as it does not exist in the GDPR
any reference to the statute of limitations relating to offences, given that this institute
legal is not specific to all EU Member States.

However, the claimed party in its pleadings to the proposal for
resolution criticizes such argumentation because, it understands, "that the typification suggested by
this part is as if it did not exist, as it is stated in the Organic Law and not in the
European Regulation. The proposal indicates that said article 73 refers
exclusively to the prescriptive terms of each infraction, depending on its
gravity, but not to offending types, so it only falls to resort to the types of the
regulation in its article 83.”

Pointing out below that with the application of "article 73 (of the LOPDGDD) no
the types of article 83 of the Regulation are not being known, much less. (…)
deny the virtuality of an organic law that defines offenses with reference and

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/44

Respect for the European Regulation is a power to which the authority has been arrogated.
Instruction, in a particularly arbitrary manner.”

We cannot share such a statement because, as already indicated in the proposal for
resolution, the GDPR is a directly applicable legal norm, which has been
developed by the LOPDGDD only in what the first allows. GDPR
typifies the offenses and the LOPDGDD qualifies them for the sole purpose of the
prescription.

Thus, the preamble to the aforementioned organic law states that it "proceeds to
describe typical behaviors; establishing the distinction between infractions very
serious, serious and minor, taking into account the differentiation that the Regulation
general data protection law establishes when setting the amount of the sanctions. The
categorization of offenses is introduced for the sole purpose of determining the
limitation periods, having the description of typical behaviors as the only
object the enumeration of exemplary way of some of the punishable acts
which must be understood to be included within the general types established in the
European standard. The Organic Law regulates the cases of interruption of the
prescription based on the constitutional requirement of knowledge of the facts
that are imputed to the person”. (underlining is ours).

That is, it results from the application and interpretation of the GDPR, and not from the LOPDGDD, the
determination of the seriousness of an infringement based on a series of
conditions set forth therein. While the exemplary classification of
infractions for the purposes of the prescription of the LOPDGDD does not have virtuality in
regarding the determination of the seriousness of the infringement for the purposes of the GDPR or
regarding the imposition of the corresponding fines in its case.

This disciplinary procedure has been initiated against the claimed party, as
indicates the initiation agreement, "for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR,
typified in article 83.5.a) of the GDPR.” The reference that performs such an act
administrative to article 72 of the LOPDGDD is only for the purposes of prescription
of the offence.

Furthermore, it should be noted that:

- In the present case, there is a violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, since it does not
The data to be published was minimized, a specific obligation collected accurately
in the aforementioned precept, for which reason article 83.4 cannot be applied
of the GDPR, which does not include the classification of the violated precept.

- Article 25 of the GDPR includes specific obligations of the data controller
treatment in relation to privacy by design and by default, and must
consider for the purpose of adopting the necessary measures, the application
effective of all the treatment principles included in article 5 of the GDPR. To the
after all, Guidelines 4/2019 of the European Committee for Data Protection on
article 25 of the GDPR state that "In the application of article 25, it is necessary to take into account
Note that the main objective of the design is that the effective application of the
principles (of article 5 of the GDPR) and the protection of the rights of the interested parties
integrated into appropriate treatment measures.” Notwithstanding the foregoing, in

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/44

this specific assumption and in attention to the proven facts, what happens is that
Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR has been infringed, due to the principle of specialty, which
imposes a specific obligation on the data controller to process the data
personal information "adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes
for those who are treated.”

However, the foregoing is not shared by the claimed party in its writ of
allegations to the proposed resolution, stating that "it is not that the
The victim's own narration was a fact that could not be known, but that in
In the worst case, the necessary technical measures were not applied to rule out
that eventuality. For this reason, the offense can never be the most serious, since
listening to the victim was important, but in the worst case, it was not adopted
a technical caution in the treatment of data that was indeed relevant and susceptible to
be published.”

First of all, it should be noted that "the victim's own narrative" is not a piece of information.
of a personal nature in accordance with the definition established in article 4 of the
GDPR. The personal data that is the subject of this procedure
sanctioner is the voice of the victim, regardless of the content of his statement
before the court.

Once the foregoing is established, and in view of the statements made by the party
claimed, it is worth asking about what is important to listen to: the narrative
of the victim or his undistorted voice. And clearly, what is important to hear is
the content of the victim's statement, which is protected by the
Fundamental Right of Freedom of Information of the media.
A different matter is the undistorted voice of the victim, which, as has already been
indicated, it is not necessary to know the content of the narration and, therefore, to
that the medium manages to fulfill its informative purpose.

Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR does not limit the excess of data, but the need. That is to say,
personal data will be "adequate, relevant and limited to the need" for the
that were collected, in such a way that if the objective pursued can be achieved
without carrying out excessive data processing, this must be done in any case.

Similarly, recital 39 of the GDPR indicates that: "Personal data only
should be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by
other media." Therefore, only the data that is "adequate,
relevant and not excessive in relation to the purpose for which they are obtained or processed”.

As already indicated in the Legal Basis III of this resolution, if the party
claimed had carried out a risk analysis prior to the publication
from the information, would have concluded:

- That there was a risk that someone who heard the victim's voice without distorting,
I could identify her.

- That hearing the victim's voice clearly is not necessary for the purpose
informative.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/44

In conclusion, the principle of data minimization regulated in the
Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, which is an infringement of the regulations on
data protection in accordance with article 84.5.a) of the GDPR.

V

The defendant makes a series of criticisms of the aggravating factors to which he refers
both the initiation agreement and the proposed resolution:

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR: The defendant considers that such an aggravating circumstance is not
should have applied because "neither the mere reproduction of the victim's voice,
devoid of any other collateral damage, made it recognizable by third parties,
nor has it been dissatisfied with the informative treatment on the
case, at any time.", adding that "the undistorted audio remained
accessible for a short time and, furthermore, it cannot be ignored that it was a
accessory element to the text of the information, so that only a minimum part of the
Readers of the news on the website also reproduced the excerpt from the
recording".

Since in Fundamentals of Law III we have already referred to the fact that the voice does
makes the victim identifiable with respect to people who were unaware of such condition, as well
as if there was a real will not to be identified, we are going to refer
at this time to the considerations made by the defendant regarding the time
that the audio was available with the victim's voice without distorting as well as on
the number of people who have played such a recording.

Regarding the "short time" that, according to the claimed party, the audio with the voice was
of the victim without distorting it should be noted that, analyzing the case, we found
that the video was published on ***DATE.5, being aware of the removal of the
itself and the distortion of the voice in the digital newspaper of the party claimed the
***DATE.4, the day the order to remove the content was notified. Is
In other words, the video with the undistorted voice of the victim was available for a
month and a few days

Bearing in mind that time is a relative concept, in the present case it is not
You can share the allegation that the content was published for a short time, since
the video with the undistorted voice of the victim was published the same day that it took place
the newsworthy fact, being available until the AEPD notified the party
demanded the aforementioned requirement, which shows that the measure of
removal of the content did not derive from a spontaneous action of the claimed party.

On the other hand, regarding the allegation related to “that only a minimal part of the
Readers of the news on the website also reproduced the excerpt from the
recording" it must be indicated that the number of people who have
listened to the video of the victim's account in his undistorted voice. On the one hand,
because the purpose of the Fundamental Right to Personal Data Protection is
protect people without hesitation and without exception, even more so in this case, given that
what has occurred is the dissemination of a story from a victim of rape
multiple. On the other hand, because the processing carried out by the claimed party is
characterizes:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/44

- Due to its durability over time, since once the news is published, it remains in
the network, making it possible to access its content (and, in this case, the victim's voice)
both through newspaper libraries and through search engines, so many
times as desired and without time limitation.

- Due to its amplifying effect: as it is a means of communication that facilitates
information through the internet, making knowledge of that information accessible
information exponentially and ubiquitously.

In this sense, the STJUE of August 1, 2022 in case C-184/20 (OT and
Vyriausioji tarnybinės etikos komisija) exposes the amplifying effect of the internet
indicating that "102 On the other hand, it is clear that this treatment leads to those
personal data are freely accessible on the Internet by the public as a whole
general and, as a result, by a potentially unlimited number of people.

The information, including the voice of the victim, has been made available to a large
number of people, allowing access to it through any type of
electronic device, twenty-four hours a day and for an unlimited time. In
Consequently, the risk that the victim runs of being able to be recognized has been
increased exponentially.

The question is that behind that voice that has been decided to publish, there is a person
vulnerable, due to the experience suffered.

Based on the foregoing, the circumstance regulated in article 83.2.a) of the
GDPR as an aggravating circumstance, since the nature of the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR is of such seriousness that it has led to the loss of disposition and control over the
personal data of the voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity, and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR: Considers the party claimed that did not act with
negligence, "since the discrepancy lies in the weighting of rights
conflicting fundamentals in the information transmission process, in which
terms may or may not agree, a very different matter from acting
unconsciously or negligently, which was not the case.”

In this regard, it should be remembered that jurisprudence repeatedly considers that
from the culpable element it can be deduced “...that the action or omission, classified as
administratively sanctionable infraction, must be, in any case, attributable to its
author, due to intent or negligence, negligence or inexcusable ignorance” (STS of 16 and 22
April 1991). The same Court pointed out that "it is not enough... for the exculpation
in the face of typically unlawful behavior, the invocation of the absence of
guilt" but it is necessary to prove "that the diligence that was required
by those who claim its non-existence” (STS, January 23, 1998).

Connected with the degree of diligence that the data controller is obliged to
to deploy in compliance with the obligations imposed by the regulations of

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/44

data protection, the Judgment of the National Court of 17
October 2007 (rec. 63/2006), which indicates, in relation to entities whose activity
involves continuous processing of customer data, which: "(...) the Court
Supreme Court has understood that there is imprudence whenever a
legal duty of care, that is, when the offender does not behave with due diligence
callable. And in assessing the degree of diligence, special consideration must be given to the
professionalism or not of the subject, and there is no doubt that, in the case now examined,
when the activity of the appellant is constant and abundant handling of data from
personal character must be insisted on the rigor and exquisite care to adjust to the
legal provisions in this regard.

In the present case, the claimed party has not acted with the required diligence, since
The media are responsible for the processing of personal data
personnel who habitually distort the voice in order not to be heard
recognize the person speaking. For this reason, the initiation agreement in its Fundamentals of
Law IX indicates that the claimed party "was negligent in not ensuring a
procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data in some
such sensitive circumstances.

It is useless to allege the specific newsworthiness of the audio content for
denounce the inadequate treatment given to the victim by the prosecutor, purpose
for which it was not necessary to broadcast the voice of the victim without distortion, as
as indicated in the Legal Basis III. Nor can it be taken into account
the allegation made by the defendant regarding the fact that practically all of the
main media outlets in the country will carry out their treatment
informative with support in the recording of the hearing with the voice of the interveners, since
there is no room for equality in illegality (SSTC 40/1989, 21/1992, 115/1995, 144/1999,
25/2022, among others). Because the truth is that a woman (...), victim of a crime
violent and against sexual integrity, it has been put at a certain risk of being
identified by people who were unaware of their status as victims, a risk that should
have been analyzed prior to the publication of the information by the
media and for which it is responsible.

- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR: Criticizes the party claimed that the initial agreement returns
to refer at this moment to "the certain possibility of recognizing the victim of a crime
as the one reporting the news", as well as the fact that the data is very sensitive, since
understands that these issues have already been formulated in the first of the aggravating circumstances.

The statement made by the claimed party cannot be shared, because while
The first circumstance regulated by the GDPR as an aggravating circumstance refers to the
very serious nature of the offense assessed as a whole, the circumstance
regulated in article 83.2.g) of the GDPR as an aggravating circumstance, specifically addresses
that the category of personal data affected by the infringement is highly sensitive. Are
totally different issues.

On the other hand, the claimed party points out that the same day it received the request
of the AEPD to withdraw the news or distort the voice of the victim, "proceeded to
distort the voice of the published information and to communicate to that AEPD the execution
of the requested measure, which he proactively communicated to all those platforms
online with which the chain shares content, so that they apply the same

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/44

measure (since the SER cannot do it) and therefore it would be of maximum effectiveness.”
For this reason, it considers that the following mitigating factors must be taken into account:

- Article 83.2.c) of the GDPR: "any measure taken by the person responsible or
in charge of the treatment to alleviate the damages and losses suffered by the
interested”.

The content withdrawal measure did not derive from a spontaneous action of the
claimed party aimed at alleviating, effectively, the damage suffered by the
victim, but rather an urgent and mandatory withdrawal order from the AEPD, so there is no
can be considered in the present case as a mitigating factor, although the fact that
such action was not "spontaneous" is criticized by the claimed party in his brief
of allegations to the proposed resolution.

For this purpose, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines 04/2022 of the Committee
European Data Protection Committee on the calculation of administrative fines with
according to the RGPD, in its version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation,
which state that "The measures adopted must be evaluated, in particular, in
relation to the element of opportunity, that is, the moment in which they are applied
by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, and its effectiveness. In this sense, it is more
It is likely that measures applied spontaneously before the start of the
investigation of the control authority are known by the person in charge or the
in charge of the treatment that the measures that have been applied after that
moment."

Neither can the communication that the claimed party
have sent to the online platforms with which you share content so that
modify such content, since such conduct is typical of a person responsible for the
treatment that acts based on the principle of proactive responsibility, of
in accordance with article 5.2 and article 19 of the GDPR.

- Article 83.2.f) of the GDPR: "the degree of cooperation with the control authority with
in order to remedy the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the
infringement".

The degree of cooperation with the AEPD cannot be considered a mitigation of any
time that the withdrawal orders issued by it are mandatory
in accordance with the provisions of article 69 of the LOPDGDD. The consideration of the
cooperation with the AEPD as mitigation, as claimed by the appellant, not
is linked to any of the cases in which there may be a collaboration or
cooperation or requirement by reason of a legal mandate, when the actions are
due and required by law, as in the case at hand, being indifferent to the
degree of diligence in responding to requirements, despite what is indicated by the
claimed party in its pleadings to the proposed resolution.

To this end, it is necessary to take into account the Guidelines of the Working Group of the
Article 29 on the application and setting of administrative fines for the purposes of
Regulation 2016/679, approved on October 3, 2017, which states that
“That said, it would not be appropriate to take into account in addition the cooperation that the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/44

law requires; for example, in any case the entity is required to allow the authority of
control access to the facilities to carry out audits or inspections”.

In the same sense, Directives 04/2022 of the European Committee for the Protection of
Data on the calculation of administrative fines in accordance with the GDPR, in its
version of May 12, 2022, submitted to public consultation, indicate that "it must be
consider that the ordinary duty of cooperation is obligatory and, therefore, must be
considered neutral (and not a mitigating factor).”

Therefore, we can conclude that "cooperation" cannot be understood as that which
is required or mandatory by law for the person responsible for the
treatment, as in this case.

In view of the foregoing, the provisionally proposed sanction was duly motivated,
because in the initial agreement, as well as in the resolution proposal, they were collected and
duly made explicit the circumstances that have been taken into account for the
quantification of the sanction.

SAW

The voice of a person, according to article 4.1 of the GDPR, is personal data
make it identifiable, and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said GDPR:

“Personal data”: any information about an identified natural person or
identifiable (“the data subject”); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by means of
an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data of
location, an online identifier or one or more elements of identity
physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social of said person;”

The voice is a personal and individual attribute of each physical person that is defined
for its height, intensity and timbre. Endowed with unique and singular distinctive features that
individualize it directly, associating it with a specific individual, it is molded
when speaking, being able to know, through it, the age, sex, state of health of the
individual, his way of being, his culture, his origin, his hormonal, emotional and
psychic. Elements of the expression, the idiolect or the intonation, are also data of
personal character considered together with the voice.

For this reason, report 139/2017 of the Legal Office of this Agency states that "the
image as well as the voice of a person is personal data, as will be
any information that makes it possible to determine, directly or indirectly, your identity
(…)”

In fact, the National Court Judgment dated March 19, 2014 (rec.
176/2012) says that "the voice of a person constitutes data of a personal nature, as
as can be deduced from the definition offered by article 3.a) of the LOPD,
as
"any information concerning identified or identifiable natural persons",
This question is not controversial."

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/44

Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as: "any operation or set of
of operations carried out on personal data or sets of personal data,
whether by automated procedures or not, such as the collection, registration,
organization, structuring, conservation, adaptation or modification, extraction,
consultation, use, communication by transmission, diffusion or any other form of
authorization of access, collation or interconnection, limitation, deletion or destruction.”

The inclusion of a person's voice in journalistic publications, which identifies or
makes a person identifiable, implies a processing of personal data and, therefore,
Therefore, the person responsible for the treatment that carries out the same is obliged to comply with
the obligations for the data controller set forth in the GDPR and in
the LOPDGDD.

VII

This procedure was initiated because the claimed party published, on the website
referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge of a victim of a
multiple rape, to illustrate the news regarding the holding of the trial in a case
that was very mediatic. The victim's voice was clearly appreciated when recounting
with all the crudeness of details the multiple rape suffered. All this constitutes a
processing of personal data of the victim.

People have the power of disposal over their personal data, including
his voice, as well as its diffusion, resulting, without a doubt, deserving of
protection of the person whose personal data is disclosed in violation of the law
legal.

Thus, STC 292/2000, of November 30, provides that "the content of the right
Fundamental to data protection consists of a power of disposal and control
on personal data that empowers the person to decide which of those data
provide to a third party, be it the State or an individual, or which can this third party
collect, and which also allows the individual to know who owns that personal data
and for what, being able to oppose that possession or use. These powers of disposition and
control over personal data, which constitute part of the content of the right
fundamental to data protection are legally specified in the power to
consent to the collection, obtaining and access to personal data, its subsequent
storage and treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the
state or an individual. And that right to consent to knowledge and treatment,
computerized or not, of personal data, requires as complements
essential, on the one hand, the ability to know at all times who has
these personal data and to what use you are submitting them, and, on the other hand, the power
oppose such possession and uses”.

In this sense, and regardless of the legal basis legitimizing the
treatment, all controllers must respect the principles of
treatment included in article 5 of the GDPR. We will highlight article 5.1.c) of the
GDPR which establishes that:

"1. Personal data will be

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/44

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");"

However, we are faced with a fundamental right that is not absolute,
since, if necessary, the Fundamental Right to Data Protection can
give in to the prevalence of other rights and freedoms also constitutionally
recognized and protected, such as, for example, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information, weighing it on a case-by-case basis.

However, in the present case, as we will explain, it must be considered that the
treatment carried out by the claimed party within the framework of the freedom of
information has been excessive, as there is no prevailing public interest in information in
the dissemination of the voice of the victim - without adding any added value to the information
keeping the real voice of the victim (without distorting, for example)-, under whose pretext
it seems that those data have been disclosed; voice that, added to the fact that it is
a highly publicized case, makes the victim clearly identifiable. By pondering the
conflicting interests and, considering the concurrent circumstances of this case,
that is, the especially sensitive nature of personal data and the intense
affectation of the privacy of the victim, the interest of the owner deserves greater protection
of the right to the protection of your personal data and that they are not disclosed in front of the
claimed public interest in its dissemination.

VIII

In the struggle between the Fundamental Rights to Freedom of Information in
relation to the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, even
when an equal degree of protection is recognized for both constitutional rights,
ordinarily the first is usually endowed with prevalence by our courts, after
assess and weigh all the elements at stake.

However, preponderance does not mean prevalence when, after all the
concurrent circumstances in a specific case, the limits set are exceeded
normatively and jurisprudentially.

In this sense, the Article 29 Working Group in its Opinion 06/2014 on the
concept of legitimate interest of the data controller under the
Article 7 of Directive 95/46/EC, when examining the legal basis of the legitimate interest of the
Article 7.1.f) of Directive 95/46/CE, fully transferable to the current art. 6.1.f) of
GDPR, includes the right to freedom of expression or information as one of the
cases in which the question of legitimate interest may arise, stating that "without
regardless of whether the interests of the data controller will ultimately prevail
term on the interests and rights of the interested parties when the
weighing test”.

IX

That said, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information is not
absolute. We can observe very clear limits established by the courts in the

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/44

civil sphere, in relation to the Right to Honor, to Personal and Family Privacy and to
the Image itself.

Thus, we will cite, for all, STC 27/2020, of February 24 (amparo appeal 1369-
2017) that it has, in relation to the image of a person, and based on the fact
uncontroversial that it makes it identifiable, that “…the debated question is reduced to
consider whether the non-consensual reproduction of the image of an anonymous person is
that is, of someone who is not a public figure, but who suddenly and
involuntarily a role in the newsworthy event, in this case as a victim of
failed attempted murder by his brother and his subsequent suicide,
implied an illegitimate interference in their fundamental right to their own image (art.
18.1 CE).

[…]

…that criminal events are newsworthy events, even with
regardless of the character of private subject of the person affected by the news. Without
However, the limit is in the individualization, direct or indirect, of the victim, since
This data is not of public interest because it lacks relevance for the information
that is allowed to be transmitted (SSTC 20/1992, of February 20; 219/1992, of
December; 232/1993, of July 12; 52/2002, of February 25; 121/2002, of 20
May, and 127/2003, of June 30). Thus, it is currently recognized by Law 4/2015, of 27
April, of the crime victim statute, in force since October 28, 2015,
when he warns of the need "from the public authorities [to offer] a
response as broad as possible, not only legal but also social, to the victims,
not only repairing the damage in the framework of a criminal proceeding, but also
minimizing other traumatic effects on the moral that his condition can
generate, all this regardless of their procedural situation. Therefore, the present
Statute, in line with European regulations on the matter and with the demands that
raises our society, claims, based on the recognition of the dignity of
victims, the defense of their material and moral assets and, with it, those of the group of
the society". In cases such as those raised in this appeal, this Court must
give relevance to the prevalence of the right to the image of the victim of the crime
against information freedoms, since graphic information became idle or
superfluous because the photograph of the victim lacks real interest for the transmission of
the information, in this case the apparent accomplishment of a homicide and subsequent
suicide” (emphasis added).

We will add the STS, from its First Civil Chamber, 272/2011 of April 11 (rec.
1747/2008), in which, regarding the data necessary to provide a
information and limits to the public interest states that "b) Trivial information is not
protects (ATC 75/2006), but the fact of providing unnecessary data in a case of
rape (full name, last name initials, street portal where
the victim lived) that have no community relevance, do not respect the reservation, only
seek to satisfy curiosity, produce disturbances or annoyances, and reveal
aspects of personal and private life unnecessarily, allowing neighbors,
close people and relatives full identification of the victim and knowledge
in great detail about an act that seriously violated his dignity (STC
185/2002) or about a disease that has no public interest and affects

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/44

direct to the irreducible field of intimacy and that reveals itself to the effect of a pure
joke or joke (STC 232/1993);”.

Likewise, the STS, of its First Civil Chamber, 661/2016, of November 10 (rec.
3318/2014), in relation to the capture and dissemination in court of the image of a
victim of gender violence provided that "1.) The interest of the
disputed information or the right of the defendant television station to broadcast
images recorded during the act of the oral trial of the criminal case, since there is no record
no limitation in this regard agreed by the judicial body.

2nd) The only controversial point is, therefore, whether the applicant's identification
as a victim of the crimes prosecuted in said criminal case, through first
shots of his face and the mention of his first name and place of residence, he was
also included in the fundamental right of the television channel
demanded to transmit truthful information or, on the contrary, was limited by the
fundamental rights of the plaintiff to her personal privacy and to her own
image.

3rd) Regarding this matter, the jurisprudence has recognized the general interest and the
public relevance of information on criminal cases (judgment 547/2011, of 20
July), which are accentuated in cases of physical and psychological abuse (judgments
128/2011, of March 1, and 547/2011, of July 20), but it has also pointed out,
regarding the identification of the persons involved in the trial, that the
defendant and the victim are not on an equal footing, because in terms of
that one does allow a complete identification, and not only by its initials, due to the
nature and social significance of the crimes of mistreatment (judgment 547/2011,
of July 20).

[…]

6th) In short, the defendant television channel should have acted with the prudence of the
diligent professional and avoid issuing images that represented the
recurring in close-up, either refraining from issuing the corresponding shots,
well using technical procedures to blur their features and prevent their
recognition (judgment 311/2013, of May 8). Similarly, it should also
avoid mentioning your first name, because this information, insufficient by itself to
constitute illegitimate interference, became relevant when pronounced on the screen
simultaneously with the image of the applicant and add the mention of her
town of residence, data all of them unnecessary for the essence of the content
information, as evidenced by the news about the same trial published in the
next day in other media. 7th) The identification of the plaintiff through his
image and personal data indicated and its direct link to an episode of
gender violence and other serious crimes, when disclosure was foreseeable
Simultaneous or subsequent data referring to how the victim and her aggressor met
and the way in which the criminal acts occurred, supposes that the loss of the
anonymity would violate both the plaintiff's right to her own image, by the
broadcast of their physical features, such as their personal and family intimacy, to the extent that
that some reserved data, belonging to his private life (who went to the Internet
to start a relationship or the intimate content of some of their talks), lacking
offensive entity in a situation of anonymity, they began to have it from the moment

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/44

in which any person who watched those news programs and who resided in the
location of the victim could know who they were referring to, so that the damage
psychological damage inherent to his condition as a victim of crimes was added to the moral damage
consisting of the disclosure of information about his private life that he had not consented to
make public." (underlining is ours).

As we can see, a clear reference is made to the excessive treatment of
personal data (some of which are not of an intimate nature) to provide the
information, considering them unnecessary at all points in attention to the
concurrent circumstances. Sometimes the courts refer to intimate data,
but sometimes it is personal data that is not intimate, such as, for
For example, the image of a natural person obtained from a photograph published in a
social network or name and surname.

X

In the specific case examined, as we have indicated, the claimed party
published, on the website referred to in the facts, the audio of the statement before the judge
of a victim of a multiple rape, to illustrate the news of a very
media.

Thus, it is not a question, as in other cases examined by jurisprudence, of endowing
of prevalence to a fundamental right over another, having to choose which one has more
weight in a specific case. If not, rather, to find a balance between
both to achieve the achievement of the purpose of the first without undermining the second.
The reconciliation of both rights is nothing new, since the legislator
European Union mandates such reconciliation in article 85 of the GDPR.

As we have seen previously, the Fundamental Right to Freedom of
Information is not unlimited, since the jurisprudential interpretation when confronting it
with other rights and freedoms does not allow the same in any case and with all breadth,
but, nevertheless, the prevalence that the courts usually endow it can be seen
limited by other fundamental rights that must also be respected. Thus
observes its limitation when the personal data provided was unnecessary for the
essence of the information content.

We must consider the special circumstances present in the supposed
examined. It is about a woman (...) who has suffered a multiple rape. In the
published recording, she is heard recounting, with great emotional charge, the aggression
sexuality suffered with all crudeness, (...).

In addition, we cannot lose sight of the victim status of the woman whose voice, with
all the nuances exposed, has spread.

Let us remember, for merely illustrative purposes, that Law 4/2015, of April 27,
of the Statute of the victim of crime, as well as the recent Organic Law 10/2022, of 6
of September, of integral guarantee of sexual freedom, foresee a special
need to protect victims of crimes against sexual freedom or
sexual indemnity. In addition, the aforementioned Statute of the victim of crime
it also provides special protection for victims of violent crimes. and in the
case examined both circumstances concur.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

38/44

In this case, the situation of the victim must be considered (who is not in the
same level of equality as the defendants) and what the diffusion of their voice with
all its nuances, as well as the special protection that the
legal system that, without constraining the supply of information, must be done
compatible with the principle of data minimization, applicable to the form, the
medium in which the information is supplied and disseminated due to the immediate affectation of the data
personnel and the identification of the victim.

Precisely because the obvious informative public interest in the news is not denied,
Given the general interest in criminal cases, in this specific case, it is not a question of
to diminish the Fundamental Right to Freedom of Information due to the prevalence
of the Fundamental Right to the Protection of Personal Data, but of
make them fully compatible so that both are absolutely
guaranteed. That is, the freedom of information of the media is not questioned.
of communication but the weighting with the right to data protection based on
to the proportionality and need to publish the specific personal data of the voice. Such
situation could have been resolved with the use of technical procedures to
prevent voice recognition, such as, for example, distortion of the voice of
the victim or the transcript of the report of the multiple rape, security measures
both, applied depending on the case in an ordinary way by means of
communication.

At older we have to mean that the victim is an anonymous person and our
Constitutional Court, for all, STC 58/2018, of June 4, affirms that the
public authorities, public officials and public figures or those dedicated to
activities that carry public notoriety “voluntarily accept the risk of
that their subjective personality rights are affected by criticism, opinions
or adverse disclosures and, therefore, the right to information reaches, in relation to
with them, its maximum level of legitimizing effectiveness, insofar as their life and conduct
morality participate in the general interest with a greater intensity than that of those
private persons who, without a vocation for public projection, see themselves
circumstantially involved in matters of public importance, to which
Therefore, a higher level of privacy must be recognized, which prevents
granting general importance to facts or behaviors that would have it if they were referred to
to public figures".

The STJUE (Second Chamber) of February 14, 2019, in case C 345/17, Sergejs
Buivids, mentions various criteria to ponder between the right to respect
of privacy and the right to freedom of expression, among which are
“the contribution to a debate of general interest, the notoriety of the affected person,
the object of the report, the previous behavior of the interested party, the content, the
form and the repercussions of the publication, the form and the circumstances in which it is
obtained information and its veracity (see, in this regard, the judgment of the ECtHR of
June 27, 2017, Satakunnan Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland,
CE:ECHR:2017:0627JUD000093113, section 165)”.

In such a way that for a matter to be considered of general interest,
public relevance, they will be not only for the person who intervenes, but also for the
matter to which it refers. Both requirements must concur, resulting, at greater

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

39/44

abundance of what was meant in the previous section, that in the case examined
the victim is not a public person; rather the contrary, it is of great interest that
is recognized by third parties, so it may entail a new penalty
to the already suffered The victim is an anonymous person and must remain so, in such a way that
so that their fundamental rights are fully guaranteed.

In the present case, (i) we are not dealing with a figure of public relevance, in which
sense that such relevance is sufficient to understand that it supposes, ex lege, a
dispossession of your fundamental right to the protection of your personal data, and (ii)
although we are dealing with facts "of public relevance", in the sense that they are revealed
as "necessary" for the presentation of ideas or opinions of public interest, that
necessity does not reach the provision of data that identifies the victim.

For this reason, and as expressed by the Supreme Court in its (civil) Judgment 697/2019, of 19
December, the formation of a free public opinion does not require, nor does it justify, the
affects the fundamental right to one's own image [in this case to the protection of
personal data] with that seriousness and in a way that does not save the necessary
connection with the identification of the person object of the information.

It is worth mentioning the breach of point 1 of the Digital Pact for the
protection of persons, signed by the entity involved, which establishes that "The
signatories to the Charter will refrain from identifying in any way the victims of
assaults, acts of violence or sexual content in their information or
publish information from which, in general, your identity can be inferred
in the case of people of no public relevance. All this without prejudice to the fact that the
non-public persons may be involved in newsworthy events, in which case
the informative coverage will be the necessary one to give adequate fulfillment to the right
information, taking into account the peculiarities of each case".

eleventh

Every person responsible for the treatment has conferred obligations in terms of
data protection, in the terms prescribed in the GDPR and in the LOPDGDD,
being able to highlight, in terms of what interests us, proactive responsibility,
Article 5.2 of the GDPR, risk assessment and implementation of measures
of adequate security. Obligations that are even more relevant when, as in
In the case we are examining, this one is particularly sensitive.

Such obligations do not decline because we are before a data controller
that it is a means of communication.

If we add the diffusion of the victim's voice (with all its nuances), which makes it
identifiable and can be recognized by third parties, with the factual account that makes
in relation to the violation suffered, there is a very high and very likely risk that
may suffer damage to their rights and freedoms. This has happened in other cases
of dissemination of personal data of victims of rape crimes. And this, in addition to
that with the diffusion of the voice of the victim she is being sentenced again to
can be recognized by third parties, when it is not a proportional treatment or
necessary in relation to the information purposes pursued.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

40/44

It is tremendously significant that, in the case examined, the part
claimed immediately has distorted the voice of the victim's statement in
the podcast at the request of the AEPD, without prejudice to which the information follows
being available and continues to be supplied with all its breadth. This puts
manifest that in order to provide this specific information it was not necessary, in the
terms of art. 5.1.c) of the GDPR to disseminate the voice of the victim.

twelfth

The claimed party has processed data that was excessive as it was not necessary for the
purpose for which they were processed, which constitutes an infringement of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR.

The infringement attributed to the claimed party is typified in article
83.5, section a) of the GDPR, which under the heading "General conditions for the
imposition of administrative fines" provides that:

Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
offenses the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD indicates:

Article 72. Offenses considered very serious.

"1. Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

XIII

In order to determine the administrative fine to be imposed, the
provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the GDPR, precepts that state:

"Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines
under this Article for infringements of this Regulation

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

41/44

indicated in sections 4, 5 and 6 are effective in each individual case,
proportionate and dissuasive.”

"Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or in lieu of the measures contemplated in
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case shall be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question as well as the number
number of interested parties affected and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the person in charge or in charge of the treatment to
settle the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment, habi-
gives an account of the technical or organizational measures that have been applied by virtue of the
articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the controller or processor;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, paragraph 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or to mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
"Sanctions and corrective measures", provides:

"2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

42/44

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing.
personal information.

c) The benefits obtained as a consequence of the commission of the infraction.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have led to the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
violation, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) The affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when it is not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person responsible or in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between those and any interested party.”

In this case, the following graduation criteria are considered concurrent:

 Aggravating:

- Article 83.2.a) of the GDPR:

Nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement: It is considered that the nature of the
infraction is very serious since it entails a loss of disposition and control over
the personal data of your voice to a person who has been the victim of a violent crime and
against sexual integrity and that by disseminating said personal data there was a certain risk
that it could be recognized by third parties, with the serious damages that this
it would cause

- Article 83.2.b) of the GDPR.

Intentional or negligent infringement: Although it is considered that there was no
intentionality on the part of the communication medium, it is concluded that it was negligent
by not ensuring a procedure that guarantees the protection of personal data
in such sensitive circumstances, especially when on many occasions
distorts the voice in the news so that the person is not recognized
talking.

- Article 83.2.g) of the GDPR.

Categories of personal data affected by the infringement: The certain possibility of
recognize the victim of a crime as the one reporting the news, very serious, violent
and against sexual integrity (multiple rape), is seriously detrimental to the
affected, since what happened is linked to their sexual life.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

43/44

fourteenth

The text of the resolution establishes the offense committed and the
facts that have given rise to the violation of data protection regulations, of
which clearly infers what are the measures to adopt, notwithstanding that the
type of procedures, mechanisms or concrete instruments to implement them
corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is the person responsible for the treatment who
He fully knows his organization and has to decide, based on the responsibility
proactive and risk-focused, how to comply with the GDPR and the LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,
 
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE SOCIEDAD ESPAÑOLA DE RADIODIFUSION, S.L., with NIF
B28016970, for a violation of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article
83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of 50,000.00 euros (FIFTY THOUSAND euros).

SECOND: Confirm the following provisional measures imposed on COMPANY
ESPAÑOLA DE RADIODIFUSION, S.L.:

- Withdrawal or distortion of the victim's voice from their web addresses, avoiding, in the
to the extent that the state of technology allows it, the re-uploading or re-uploading of copies
or exact replicas by the same or other users.

- Withdrawal or modification of the contents in such a way that it makes it impossible to access them and
disposition of the original by third parties, but guarantees its preservation, for the purposes of
guard the evidence that may be necessary in the course of the investigation
police or administrative or judicial process that may be investigated.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to SOCIEDAD ESPAÑOLA DE
RADIODIFUSION, S.L.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, by means of its income, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, open in the name of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency at the bank CAIXABANK, S.A.. In the event
Otherwise, it will proceed to its collection in the executive period.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

44/44

between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registries provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-120722

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

