Deliberation 2018-265 of June 21, 2018 National Commission for Computing and Liberties Legal status: Repealed Date of publication on Légifrance: Friday July 20, 2018 and freedoms" presented by the company Alain Bensoussan SELASDeliberation n° 2018-265 of June 21, 2018 on the labeling of the GDPR training course entitled "Lexing® formations Informatique et libertés" presented by the company Alain Bensoussan SELAS (Request n° 18004468)The National Commission information technology and freedoms, Seizure by the company Alain Bensoussan SELAS, on February 28, 2018, of a request for the issuance of a label concerning its GDPR training entitled "Lexing® IT and freedoms training"; Having regard to Convention No. 108 of the Council of Europe for the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of personal data; Having regard to Regulation (EU) 201 6/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of physical data with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC; Considering the modified law n° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and freedoms, in particular its article 11-3° c); the application of Law No. 78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and freedoms; Having regard to deliberation No. 2013-175 of July 4, 2013 adopting the internal regulations of the CNIL, in particular its Articles 32 and following; Considering the deliberation n° 2017-220 of July 13, 2017 modifying the reference system for the issuance of labels in terms of training relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data; file and its supplements; On the proposal of Mr. Maurice RONAI, co Commissioner, Chairman of the Labeling Committee and after having heard the observations of Mrs. Nacima BELKACEM, Government Commissioner, Makes the following observations: Article 11-3° c) of the amended law of January 6, 1978 provides that the CNIL "issue a label for products or procedures aimed at the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data". The training, subject of the request, is composed as follows: The fields of application; The actors; The fundamental principles; The obligations of the data controller and the processor; Data transfers outside the European Union; The rights of individuals; Big data and profiling; The organization of relations; The individual's remedies concerned; The sanctions; The data protection officer; The CNIL and its supervisory powers; The framework for processing in the field of health. The label application submitted by the company Alain Bensoussan SELAS includes the s following additional modules: presentation of the CNIL and its missions; presentation of the formalities prior to the implementation of processing; presentation of the framework for data transfers outside the European Union; presentation of the role of the data protection officer data; presentation of the framework for processing in the field of health; presentation of the CNIL's a posteriori control power; presentation of the CNIL's sanctioning power; presentation of the penal provisions associated with non-compliance with the General European Regulation on Data Protection. The Commission acknowledges that the training presented complies with the standard to which it relates, in accordance with Article 37 of its internal regulations. Decides On the issuance of the CNIL "RGPD training" label for the training entitled "Lexing ® Computing and Liberties training” from Alain Bensoussan SELAS. This label is issued for a period of three years in accordance with Article 39 of the Commission's internal regulations. The use of the LABEL CNIL mark is subject to compliance with the rules for the use of the collective mark. undertakes to provide the CNIL with an activity report at the end of the first year.The PresidentI. FALQUE-PIERROTIN