 

The Bavarian State Commissioner
for data protection

 
Data protection from German countries in Europe
Federal Council elects Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri as deputy for the
common representative in the European Data Protection Board

Munich, June 28, 2021

In its 1006th session on June 25, 2021, the Federal Council
contributed to data protection, Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri, deputy of the common
elected representative on the European Data Protection Board.

The European Data Protection Board is an institution of the European Union. the
Member States are there by the head of a national data protection supervisory
represent authority. A key task of the European Data Protection Board
is to ensure the uniform application of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Since there are several data protection supervisory authorities in Germany, the federal
Data Protection Act stipulates that the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Information
freiheit the function of the common representative in the European Data Protection Board
perceives. His deputy, to be elected by the Bundesrat, takes Germany's vote
in the European Data Protection Board not only true in the event of prevention. the common
Rather, the same representative also delegates certain matters that are important for the countries
grant his deputy the right to conduct negotiations and the right to vote in the European
Privacy Committee.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri: "The additional task of the deputy of the joint representative
I am happy to take on the task of being a member of the European Data Protection Board. data protection law and
Data protection practices have a long tradition and a high professional level in Germany.
I would like the positions of the data protection supervisory authorities in the countries to be expedient
coordinate and use the diverse experiences gained there for the further development of the
Make data protection in Europe fruitful. This also and especially applies to the non-public
sector for which the data protection supervisory authorities of the federal states are
are constantly."

The election period for the function of deputy common representative in the European
schen data protection committee is five years.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

A notice:

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian public authorities
Compliance with data protection regulations. He is elected by the Bavarian state parliament, is independent and
subject to instructions.

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection
80538 Munich | Wagmüllerstrasse 18 | Telephone: +49 89 21 26 72-0
poststelle@datenschutz-bayern.de | https://www.datenschutz-bayern.de

 

 

G
n
and

l
i

e
t
t
i

m
e
s
s
e
right
P

