

Path: Home Page > Main Menu > Supervisory and Decision-Making Review of Legal Title for Disclosure of Personal Data (UOOU-02741/19)
Registered Institute


He was in office
on June 10, 2019, an initiative was delivered in which the complainant stated that he
his personal data is processed and disclosed to the specified URL. Specifically
it was his name, other details and information taken from the public
available registers, with the processing and publication of which within the web
website of the institute, as well as by sharing this information with others
by internet search engines, disagree. Authority, under the Act
preceding the inspection according to ยง 3 of Act No. 255/2012 Coll., Act
on inspection (inspection regulations), discussed the complaint filed with the institute. The
accepted it in agreement with the complainant and took measures in connection with
by processing his personal data on the institute's website, which he was legal about
representative on February 27, 2020 with a notice on the postponement of the complainant's complaint pursuant to ยง
65 of Act No. 110/2019 Coll., informed about the processing of personal data.

Authority April 15, 2020
received a "Disagreement to postpone the complaint", justified by the fact that the institute
did not take sufficient measures because through Internet search engines
after entering the name of the complainant, information about him is further displayed
with a link to the institute's web portal. Based on that, she was with the institute
as an administrator initiated an inspection that focused on the position of the inspected
person and to the legal title for the processing (disclosure) of personal data
the complainant according to Article 6 of the general regulation.

The inspectors found that the institute is the operator
subject websites. Within them, he focuses on the transparency of political life and beyond
to exercise the right to information in the sense of Article 17 of the Basic Charter
rights and freedoms, to strengthen trust in the democratic legal state of the Czech Republic
of the Republic and protection against abuse of state and public power
functions or prevention of fraud and corruption. The institute checks and analyzes
and connects contracts from the contract register, public contracts, subsidies, sponsors
political parties and politics itself.

The audit findings revealed that
the institute is in a position to run its website
administrator to Article 4 point 7 of the general regulation and processes personal data
of the data subject according to the subject of control in
within the meaning of Article 4 points 1 and 2 of the general regulation. The Institute in its private law database
operated on its website collected and further published personal
data of the complainant.

On the basis of the above, the auditors specifically evaluated whether the institute as
the administrator is evidenced by one of the legal titles according to Article 6 of the general
ordinance. In the given case, when processing the complainant's personal data (mo
revocation of his consent to the processing of personal data) came into consideration
only a legal title according to Article 6 paragraph 1 letter f) of the general regulation. When evaluating
of the balance test, the inspectors came to the conclusion that the institute in fulfilling the stated obligation this
he has violated the provisions and is therefore not possible for his action, i.e. for processing
personal data of the complainant realized through the website of the institute,
apply any of the legal titles under Article 6, including Article 6 paragraph 1
letter f) of the general regulation. Therefore, the Institute is not authorized to collect and further publish personal data
data of the complainant. Against the protocol of
no objections were submitted to the inspection within the proper deadline.

Since there has been a fix
objectionable status (liquidation of the complainant's personal data on the institute's website)
at the time of the end of the inspection, it was not started with the inspected person
administrative proceedings on the imposition of measures nor initiated proceedings on the imposition of a fine.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 1st semester > Non-profit sector > Inspection of legal title for disclosure of personal data (UOOU-02741 /19)Show current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



