1/9

 File No.: EXP202208467

RESOLUTION OF SANCTIONING PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The CIVIL GUARD - PUEBLA DEL RIO POST (hereinafter, the
complaining party) on March 7, 2022 filed a complaint with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Act against Mrs. A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the
denounced party), for the installation of a video surveillance system located in
STREET *** ADDRESS.1, there being indications of a possible breach of the
provided in article 5.1.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter, GDPR).

The complaining party provides the Complaint Act dated February 23, 2002, in which
it is indicated that the denounced party is responsible for a video surveillance camera
installed outside your home, which is oriented, without authorization to
this, to the public road and to adjoining houses.

SECOND: These facts were the object of a complaint before this Agency, processing
file AT/01169/2022. This Agency communicated to the party
denounced the requirements demanded to carry out processing of personal data
through this type of device, indicating that, in the event of not adopting the
necessary measures to comply with those requirements, would incur in a violation of the
provided in the data protection regulations, which could lead to the initiation of the
investigative and sanctioning actions. Said communication was notified with
dated March 21, 2022.

THIRD: On July 23, 2022, the complaining party has submitted to
this Agency a new complaint against the denounced party stating that the latter
continues with the pertinent video surveillance cameras focused on the public thoroughfare,
as well as access to other homes, without having adopted corrective measures
indicated by the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

FOURTH: On October 24, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FIFTH: On November 8, 2022, this Agency was returned the
notification of the Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure with the annotation
"Returned to Origin due to excess (Not withdrawn in the office)".

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

For this reason, it was sent to the Single Edictal Board (TEU), being published on
December 2022.

There is no record that the claimed party has submitted a written statement of allegations to the same.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common for Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the procedure-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise pronouncement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In it
present case, the agreement to initiate the sanctioning file determined the
facts in which the accusation was specified, the infringement of the GDPR attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into consideration that
the claimed party has not made allegations to the agreement to start the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of all the proceedings, by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On March 7, 2022, a complaint of
the CIVIL GUARD - PUEBLA DEL RIO POSITION against the party denounced by
have installed in STREET ***ADDRESS.1 a video surveillance camera in the
exterior of his house, which is oriented, without having authorization to do so, to the road
public and adjoining houses.

The Report of Complaint dated February 23, 2002 is recorded.

SECOND: File AT/01169/2022 was processed and the party was informed
denounced the requirements demanded to carry out processing of personal data
through these types of devices. Said communication was notified on 21
March 2022.

THIRD: On July 23, 2022, the complaining party has submitted to
this Agency a new complaint against the denounced party stating that the latter
continues with the pertinent video surveillance cameras focused on the public thoroughfare,
as well as access to other homes, without having adopted corrective measures
indicated by the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

There are photographs provided of the location of the camera.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

FUNDAMENTALS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the GDPR grants to each authority of
control and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that "Procedures
processed by the Spanish Data Protection Agency will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations dictated in its development and, insofar as they do not contradict them, with character
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

The physical image of a person under article 4.1 of the GDPR is personal data
and their protection, therefore, is the object of said Regulation. Article 4.2 of the GDPR
defines the concept of "processing" of personal data.

Article 22 of the LOPDGDD establishes the specificities of data processing
for video surveillance purposes, indicating the following:

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
treatment of images through systems of cameras or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of people and property, as well as their
facilities.

2. Images of the public thoroughfare may only be captured to the extent that

It is essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an extension
superior when necessary to guarantee the safety of goods or
strategic facilities or infrastructures linked to transport, without
In no case can it imply the capture of images of the interior of a home
private.

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its
collection, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of
acts that violate the integrity of people, property or facilities. In that
case, the images must be made available to the competent authority in
a maximum period of seventy-two hours from the knowledge of the
recording existence.

The blocking obligation provided for in

article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to have been complied with by placing an informative device

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person responsible and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
information device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
excluded from its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images
that only capture the interior of their own home.

This exclusion does not cover the treatment carried out by a security entity
private company that had been contracted to monitor a home and had access
to the images.

6. The processing of personal data from the images and
sounds obtained through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Armed Forces
and Security Forces and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in
prisons and for the control, regulation, surveillance and discipline of the
traffic, will be governed by the transposition legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680,
when the processing is for prevention, research, detection or
prosecution of criminal offenses or enforcement of criminal sanctions, including
protection and prevention against threats to public safety. Out
In these cases, said treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and
additionally by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of

Law 5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through information systems
cameras or camcorders is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this law
organic.”

II

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a
video surveillance system, to be in compliance with current regulations, must comply
the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a qualified private security company
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The camcorders will not be able to capture images of the people who are
are outside the private space where the security system is installed
video surveillance, since the treatment of images in public places can only be

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

carried out, unless there is government authorization, by the Forces and Corps of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them
find.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of the public road. That is, cameras and camcorders installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of the public thoroughfare unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of the
those and extraordinarily the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform the affected parties provided for in the

Articles 12 and 13 of the GDPR, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

- The controller must keep a record of processing activities
carried out under his responsibility in which the information to which he makes
reference article 30.1 of the GDPR.

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images of private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. No this
Therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors is allowed.
with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be accepted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public spaces, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

In summary and to facilitate the consultation to the interested parties, the Spanish Agency of
Data Protection offers through its website [https://www.aepd.es] access to
the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the GDPR and the
LOPDGDD (section "Reports and resolutions" / "regulations"), as well as the Guide
on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes, as well as the Guide
for compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the section "Guides
and tools").

It is also of interest, in case of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
free tool Facilitates (in the "Guides and tools" section) that, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
processing of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
indicative security considered minimum.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

IV.

In the present case, the complaint was filed because the complained party has installed
a video surveillance camera outside your home, on the STREET
*** ADDRESS.1, which is oriented, without authorization to do so, to the public thoroughfare
and adjoining houses.

Despite having processed a file by this Agency, the denounced party
continues with the installation of video surveillance without having adopted corrective measures
indicated by the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

As proof of these statements, the complainant provided the evidence
indicated in the "Facts" section of this agreement.

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, are established in article 58.2 of the GDPR. Between
they have the power to direct a warning -article 58.2.b)-, the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the GDPR -
Article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment
that the processing operations comply with the provisions of the GDPR, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period - article 58. 2
d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the GDPR, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

IV.

In accordance with the evidence that is available and that has not been
distorted in the sanctioning procedure, the denounced party has installed a
video surveillance camera that could be capturing images from third parties, so
It is considered that these facts violate the provisions of article 5.1.c) of the GDPR,
which supposes the commission of an infraction typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
which provides the following:

Violations of the following provisions will be penalized, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of maximum EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
total annual global business volume of the previous financial year, opting for
the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; […].”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringements indicated in
the previous paragraph are considered very serious and prescribe after three years, in accordance with the
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

"Based on what is established in article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
are considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data in violation of the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

(…)»

SAW

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the GDPR. Therefore,
it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established by the
Article 83.2 of the GDPR, and with the provisions of Article 76 of the LOPDGDD, regarding
to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 GDPR:

For the graduation of the sanction, it has been considered that the

sections 83.5.a) and 83.2.b) of the GDPR.

VII

However, as was already indicated in the initiation agreement and in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the GDPR, according to which each authority of
control may “order the person in charge or person in charge of the treatment that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a specified manner and within a specified period […].”,
The complained party is required to take the following steps:

- Provide the images that are observed with the device in question, indicating

on a location plan the parts that correspond to your particular property.

- certify having proceeded to remove the camera from the current location, or to

the reorientation of it towards its particular area.

It is noted that not meeting the requirements of this body may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR,
classified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent administrative sanctioning procedure.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and assessed the criteria of
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been accredited,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

FIRST: IMPOSE Ms. A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1, for a violation of article
5.1.c) of the GDPR, typified in article 83.5 of the GDPR, a fine of €300
(three hundred euros).

SECOND: TO ORDER Ms. A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 that, by virtue of article 58.2.d)
GDPR, within ten days, take the following steps:

 

- Provide the images that are observed with the device in question, indicating
on a location plan the parts that correspond to your particular property.

- certify having proceeded to remove the camera from the current location, or to

the reorientation of it towards its particular area.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to Ms. A.A.A.

FOURTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must enforce the sanction imposed
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of Article
article 98.1.b) of the LPACAP, within the voluntary payment period established in article
68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved by Royal Decree 939/2005, of
July 29, in relation to article 62 of Law 58/2003, of December 17,
through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned party and the number of the procedure
that appears in the heading of this document, in the restricted account number IBAN:
ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 (BIC/SWIFT Code: XXXXXXXXXXXX), open to
name of the Spanish Data Protection Agency in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A. Otherwise, it will be collected in the period
executive.

Once the notification has been received and once executed, if the execution date is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following or immediately following business month, and if
between the 16th and the last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following or immediately following business month.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once the interested parties have been notified.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process in accordance with article 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reversal before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from
count from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the
referred Law.

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

Finally, it is noted that in accordance with the provisions of article 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
The firm resolution may be temporarily suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact through
writing addressed to the Spanish Data Protection Agency, presenting it through
of the Electronic Registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other records provided for in article 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative proceedings within a period of two months from the day following the
Notification of this resolution would terminate the precautionary suspension.

Mar Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-181022

C / Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

