 
      

 

 

 
Athens, 23-12-2022
Prot. No.: 3410

 

Decision of the President of the Authority no. 5/2022

(Individual body – Temporary order)

 

The President of the Authority as a one-person body according to articles 17 par. 1 of n.
4624/2019 (Government Gazette A΄ 137), within the framework of the powers provided for in the articles,
4 par. 3 para. a' and 10 par. 4 of the Regulation of Operation of the Authority (Official Gazette
Β΄879/25.02.2022) and the powers provided for in article 15 par. 4 para. c'
and 8 of Law 4624/2019 in conjunction with Article 58 par. 2 f of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (GDPR), considered the case mentioned below in its history
of this decision.

 
The Authority took into account the following:

 

1. Because the Authority examines reports/complaints concerning attempts
installation of spyware on terminal devices without
consent of users and the related processing of personal data
character, while at the same time considering ex officio installation activities
such software and the associated processing of personal data
character. In the context of the said case, following the no. prot.
C/EXE/3378/21-12-2022 inspection order, an on-site inspection was carried out in
company KAPA TEL ELECTRONIC INFORMATION COMPANY ANONYMOUS AND

 
1-3 Kifisias Ave., 11523 Athens
T: 210 6475 600 • E: contact@dpa.gr • www.dpa.gr
 

 

 

1

of TELECOMMUNICATIONS, during which every information concerning the
sending or transmitting short text messages (SMS) for the purpose of
misleading recipients.

2. Because in the context of the above control it was found that a misleading SMS,
which was sent to the number “…” on … with sender ID
(senderID) "...", came from the network of the company "AMD Telecom (AY Em Di
Telecom) - Anonymous Commercial and Industrial Company of Information Technology and
Telecommunications, Provision of Advertising, Consulting and Training
Services and Exploitation of Real Estate" with d.t. "AMD Telecom S.A." and
included in its content a reference to the website "...". Further, from
various public reports1 show that there are several domain names the
which are associated with attempts to install spyware on
terminal devices without users' consent. The control as to these
domain names is under development.

3. Because when sending SMS, data is generated and processed
which refer to natural persons, such as in particular the final recipient who
is the natural person user of the terminal device receiving the SMS. The
this data is personal data, within the meaning of
article 4 par. 7 of the GDPR. In the case of sending SMS via internet
services, a message can reach the final recipient through several
intermediate "hubs", which belong to different companies. Usually, in
each intermediate node is kept data in relation to the shipment or the
transmission of SMS for various purposes, such as for the billing of services or for
security and anti-fraud purposes, which may
include various information, such as in relation to the time of shipment, the
sender (senderID), the recipient, the previous node and the content
of SMS.

                                                           
1 See especially Meta's public report (https://about.fb.com/news/2021/12/taking-action-
against-surveillance-for-hire/)

 

 

2

4. Because a company that operates a shipping or forwarding hub
of SMS messages, as long as it keeps personal data, constitutes the
controller, who determines the purpose and means of compliance
given these.

5. Because the time period of keeping the data in relation to the shipment or
SMS transmission, taking into account the principle of its time limitation
storage period (article 5 par. 1 sub. e GDPR) cannot be on
indefinitely, it follows that a company which manages a dispatch hub or
transmission of SMS messages must, based on its internal procedures, to
delete data, which may however be necessary for
investigation of the case considered by the Authority.

6. Because the Authority has based on article 15 par. 4 para. c' and 8 of Law 4624/19 in
in combination with article 58 par. 2 GDPR the authority to issue
ex officio temporary order for immediate total or partial, temporary restriction
of processing.

7. Because the deletion or destruction of personal data constitutes

form of processing based on article 4 para. 2 of the GDPR.

8. Because in order for the Authority to exercise its audit powers and to
ensure the protection of the rights of the affected subjects of
data, it is deemed necessary to maintain and not delete the data
of a personal nature related to the case investigated by the Authority.

9. Because the Authority has, based on article 58 paragraph 1 of the GDPR, the authority to give
instruct the controller or processor to provide
any information required for the performance of its duties and,
moreover, based on article 15 paragraph 4 subsection d of Law 4624/2019 it has the authority to
instruct and enforce the delivery to it of documents, systems
archiving, equipment or means of processing personnel data
character.

 

 

 

3

FOR THOSE REASONS

 

THE BEGINNING

 
Orders the company "AMD Telecom - Anonymous Commercial and
Industrial Company of Information Technology
and Telecommunications, Supply
Advertising, Consulting and Educational Services and Exploitation
Real Estate" with d.t. "AMD Telecom S.A."
a) as suspends the processing of the destruction of personnel data
nature which are observed in relation to shipping or transmission services
SMS messages, until a new decision is issued by the Authority.
b) as it provides without delay to the Authority any personal data that is kept in
company and is related to sending or transmitting SMS containing any of
the forty-four (44) domain names listed in its appendix
present, as well as any relevant information.
 

 

 

 

 
 
    The president

 
 
                                                                                     Konstantinos Menudakos
 
 

 

 

4

