



Hamburg clears up - digital spring cleaning

Photo by Jarmoluk from Pixabay





Hamburg cleans up - digital spring cleaning at the end of the Corona Hotspot regulation
Hamburg cleans up - digital spring cleaning at the end of the Corona Hotspot regulation

04/27/2022


The hotspot regulation in Hamburg will expire on April 30, 2022. Many legal measures to contain the corona virus come to an end in Hamburg. Numerous powers and obligations to collect personal data have also ceased to exist with the gradual lifting of the Corona regulations. All companies and public authorities should therefore take this new phase of the pandemic as an opportunity to take stock of their "corona data". If not already done, the pandemic-related data collection should now be stopped. Existing databases must now be checked and data no longer required must be deleted immediately. Data storage in the event of a possible future worsening of the corona situation is not possible after the legal basis has ceased to apply.
The obligation to delete applies in particular to all employers who have previously queried the 3G status of their employees. In addition, restaurants or cinemas, for example, are obliged to delete any contact data of their guests that may have been recorded. The Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (HmbBfDI) actively approaches chambers and associations and provides information on what needs to be done now.
The complaints and counseling practice has also shown that not all test centers process the health data, which is particularly worthy of protection, with the necessary care. There will be more controls in this area, including those that are independent of specific reasons.
Thomas Fuchs, the Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information: "In the last two years we have experienced an exceptional situation in many respects. Sensitive data was also collected on a large scale. These were significant encroachments on fundamental rights, which can be justified in the context of the pandemic. With the expiry of the legal powers, this collected data must now be deleted. In some cases, we observe attempts to maintain surveillance practices or to retain collected data for other purposes and contingencies. Here it is important to do educational work and, if necessary, to intervene in a supervisory manner.”
Further information:


Information letter from the HmbBfDI on the end of the Corona hotspot regulation (PDF)


Constantly updated information on how to deal with the corona pandemic




press contact
rot13("Znegva Fpurzz", "mbixtrjdknuslcge");mmehcS nitraM

Phone:
+49 40 428 54-4044
Email: rot13("cerffr@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "dtgpwuxcembovjkf");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@esserp







