1/6

 N/Ref.: E/01569/2020 - CO/00154/2020 – A56ID 110261

RESOLUTION OF FILE OF ACTIONS

Of the actions followed due to the claim filed with the Agency
Spanish Data Protection, for alleged violation of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, regarding the
protection of natural persons with regard to data processing
personal data and the free circulation of these data (hereinafter, RGPD) and having
based on the following

FACTS

 : Dated January 4, 2020 and entry registration number
FIRST
 
000327/2020, a claim filed by A.A.A.
(hereinafter, the claimant) against COMPANEO (GRUPO INFOPRO DIGITAL), for
an alleged violation of art. 21 of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of
the information society and electronic commerce (hereinafter, LSSI) and art.
13 of the GDPR.

The grounds on which the claimant bases the claim are:

 The claimant has received unsolicited emails announcing

food and fuel voucher cards.





The links provided in them lead to web portals without a privacy policy.
privacy, without identification of the owners or the Protection Delegates
of data.

The names of companies that you have been able to reach by pulling the string (Mybtobiz,
Tradedoubler, Companeo) are not familiar to you; does not recognize any
relationship with them, nor has it authorized them to process their data.

The claimant provides a copy of two business emails: one from credit card
fuel vouchers, received on 01/04/2020 and another announcing a credit card
food vouchers, received on 01/03/2020. Headers are also included.
SMTP /HTML of the same.

 : By clicking on the central image of both emails
SECOND
 
advertising, new forms are displayed that collect personal data. In the
two include links that, in one way or another, lead to the company
COMPANEO or the business group to which it belongs, GRUPO INFOPRO DIGITAL.
According to its privacy policy, the person responsible for the reported treatment would be
set to ***COUNTRY.1.

THIRD: Taking into account the cross-border nature of the claim, with
dated June 15, 2020, the provisional file of the procedure and the
remission of the claim to the control authority of ***COUNTRY.1, the Commission
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

Nationale de l'Informatique et des Libertés (CNIL), for being the competent to act
as the main control authority, in accordance with the provisions of article 56.1 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: This referral was made, through the "Market Information System
Internal” (IMI).

The control authority of ***COUNTRY.1 agreed to act in the procedure as
main supervisory authority and declared interested in it the authorities
of control of Belgium, Hungary, Italy and Austria, as well as the German regional
Berlin and Bavaria (Private Sector)

FIFTH: On December 21, 2020, the leading authority has contacted
contacted this Agency and has transmitted the response of the alleged responsible
of the treatment.

As they explain, said company rules out that they are the ones who are sending the
emails to the claimant, as they have never stored their email address
e-mail, or any other information about you. You were already informed in this regard on January 27,
2020, in response to an access request made by him 3 days earlier.

Not being responsible for the reported treatment, the CNIL does not assess possible
non-compliance with the information and transparency requirements indicated by
the complainant, and proposes the closure of the case.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

I – Competition

Regarding the infringement of the RGPD, in accordance with the provisions of its article
60.8, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to
adopt this resolution, in accordance with article 12.2, section i) of Royal
Decree 428/1993, of March 26, which approves the Statute of the Agency for
Data Protection (hereinafter, RD 428/1993) and the first transitory provision of
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

With regard to the violation of the LSSI, the jurisdiction to resolve is
granted by article 43.1 of the LSSI; and in article 47 of Organic Law 3/2018,
of December 5, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
(hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

II – LSSI Matter

The facts object of the claim reveal a possible infringement of the
Article 21 of the LSSI. This article, among others, incorporates into the legal system
Spanish Article 13 of Directive 2002/58/EC. Under the principle of
normative specialty, the special Law prevails over the general Law; things like that,
the LSSI must prevail over the RGPD, as it is a special law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

On this issue, Recital 173 of the GDPR is pronounced, which determines
that “This Regulation should apply to all matters relating to the
protection of fundamental rights and freedoms in relation to the
processing of personal data that are not subject to specific obligations with
the same objective established in Directive 2002/58/CE of the European Parliament and
of the Council including the obligations of the data controller and the rights
of natural persons (…)”.

Article 95 of the RGPD must also be taken into account, which specifies that "The
This Regulation will not impose additional obligations on natural persons or
legal provisions regarding treatment in the framework of the provision of public services
of electronic communications in public communication networks of the Union in
areas in which they are subject to specific obligations with the same objective
established in Directive 2002/58/EC.”

Therefore, the LSSI prevails in all the issues that it specifically regulates,
among them the one contemplated in its article 21, which establishes the rules for sending
commercial communications by electronic means.

III - Internal Market Information System (IMI)

The Internal Market Information System is regulated by the
Regulation (EU) No. 1024/2012, of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 25
October 2012 (IMI Regulation), and its objective is to promote cooperation
cross-border administrative assistance, mutual assistance between Member States and the
information exchange.

IV - Determination of the territorial scope

As specified in article 66 of the LOPDGDD:

"one. Except in the cases referred to in article 64.3 of this organic law,
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection must, prior to the
performance of any other action, including the admission to processing of a
claim or the beginning of preliminary investigation actions, examine its
competition and determine the national or cross-border character, in any of its
modalities, the procedure to be followed.

2. If the Spanish Data Protection Agency considers that it does not have the
condition of main control authority for the processing of the procedure
will send, without further ado, the claim formulated to the main control authority
that it considers competent, so that it is given the appropriate course. The
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will notify this circumstance to whom, in their
case, I would have made the claim.

The agreement by which the referral referred to in the previous paragraph is resolved
imply the provisional filing of the procedure, notwithstanding that the Agency
Spanish Data Protection is issued, if appropriate, the resolution to
the one referred to in section 8 of article 60 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

V - Main establishment, cross-border treatment and control authority
principal

Article 4.16 of the RGPD defines “main establishment”:

“a) with regard to a data controller with establishments in more
of a Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union, unless the
decisions about the purposes and means of processing are made in another
establishment of the controller in the Union and the latter establishment has the
power to enforce such decisions, in which case the establishment that has
Once such decisions have been made, it will be considered a main establishment;

b) with regard to a data processor with establishments in more than
a Member State, the place of its central administration in the Union or, if it does not have
this, the establishment of the person in charge in the Union in which the main
processing activities in the context of the activities of a treatment facility
processor to the extent that the processor is subject to specific obligations
in accordance with this Regulation”

For its part, article 4.23 of the RGPD considers “cross-border processing”:

“a) the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the activities of
establishments in more than one Member State of a controller or processor
of processing in the Union, if the controller or processor is established in more
of a Member State,

or b) the processing of personal data carried out in the context of the activities of
a single establishment of a controller or processor in the
Union, but which substantially affects or is likely to substantially affect
interested in more than one Member State”

The RGPD provides, in its article 56.1, for cases of processing
cross-border, provided for in its article 4.23), in relation to the competence of the
main supervisory authority, which, without prejudice to the provisions of article 55, the
control authority of the main establishment or of the sole establishment of the
responsible or the person in charge of the treatment will be competent to act as
lead supervisory authority for cross-border processing carried out by
said person in charge or person in charge, in accordance with the procedure established in article
60.

In the case examined, as has been stated, the person allegedly responsible for the
treatment COMPANEO/GROUP INFOPRO DIGITAL
had his establishment
in ***PAÍS.1, so the control authority of this country, the CNIL, was the
competent to act as the main supervisory authority.

VI - Interested control authority

In accordance with the provisions of article 4.22) of the RGPD, it is the Authority of
interested control, the control authority affected by the data processing
personal because:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

a.- The controller or processor is established in the territory
of the Member State of that supervisory authority;

b.- The interested parties who reside in the Member State of that authority of
control are substantially affected or are likely to be
substantially affected by the treatment, or

c.- A claim has been filed with that control authority.

In this procedure, they act as "control authority"
interested” the control authorities listed in the fourth fact, in addition to
this Agency, which is the one that has received the claim.

VII - Cooperation and coherence procedure

Article 60 of the RGPD, which regulates the cooperation procedure between the
main supervisory authority and the other interested supervisory authorities, has
in section 8, the following:

“8. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 7, when rejecting or rejecting a
claim, the control authority before which it has been presented will adopt the
decision, it will notify the claimant and inform the data controller of it.”

 

VIII - Claimed issue and legal reasoning

In this case, it has been submitted to the Spanish Data Protection Agency
a claim for an alleged violation of art. 21 of the LSSI and 13 of the RGPD,
related to possible cross-border data processing
personal.

By clicking on the central image of the emails received by the
affected and not requested by him, new forms are displayed that collect data
personal. Both include links that, in one way or another, lead to the
company COMPANEO or the business group to which it belongs, GRUPO INFOPRO
DIGITAL.

The aforementioned claim was transferred to the CNIL –the control authority of ***COUNTRY.1–
for being the competent to act as the main control authority, in accordance with the
provided in article 56.1 of the RGPD. The aforementioned authority put the case in
knowledge of the aforementioned company, and obtained a response from it, which
transmitted to this Agency by email.

As they explain, said company rules out that they are the ones who are sending
emails to the claimant, as they have never stored their address
of e-mail, nor any other data of yours. You were already informed in this regard on January 27,
2020, in response to an access request made by him 3 days earlier. Not being
responsible for the reported treatment, the CNIL does not assess possible
non-compliance with the information and transparency requirements indicated by
the complainant, and proposes the closure of the case.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

 
On the other hand, the claimant mentions more names in his claim
(For Business, MybToBiz, TradeDoubler). The first could not be related to
no entity. The last two appear in the URLs that are linked
in some components of business emails, but this is not
enough to identify them as possibly responsible for sending the emails.

For all of the above, this Agency does not find reasonable indications of infringement
of the data protection regulations by the investigated entity,
COMPANEO or GRUPO INFOPRO DIGITAL, and has not been able to identify
no other possible responsible for the sending of unsolicited advertising through
email. Consequently, it considers that the filing of the
present performances.

Therefore, in accordance with what was indicated, by the Director of the Spanish Agency

Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: PROCEED TO FILE this claim, filed in
date January 4, 2020 and entry registration number 000327/2020.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CLAIMANT

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this

The resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative process as prescribed
by art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Procedure
Common Administrative Law of Public Administrations, and in accordance with the
established in arts. 112 and 123 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

1103-070820

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

