1/9

 Procedure No.: PS/00420/2018

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On 09/06/2018 a claim is received from A.A.A. on behalf of B.B.B. (in
hereinafter the claimant), who works as a local police officer in ***LOCALIDAD.1, against the
CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 (LOCAL POLICE) (hereinafter claimed).

He states that from the digital platform of his job, he has access to
by all the agents to all the data of the reports, both work and
any personal and health character. Without using any type of filter, you can view the
personal data of other officials, address, medical data, marital status. Although I do not know
can be modified, if it is accessed in reading mode, and there is no record of who accesses it.

Indicates that the platform contains a report disclosing your medical data
by one superior to another, the report being perfectly visible to any
co-worker.

Provides a copy of the impression of a screen obtained from the platform, "in the
job of another colleague” to “prove the ease with which anyone accesses
to the data”, and your personal data is communicated between two superiors, data to which
any colleague can access it, without leaving a trace.

The screen contains a report with the title "Internal regime news"
shooting exercises not carried out by the PL XXX-shift leader with a number and name and
surnames and in Agents two numbers.

The commentary narrates the facts of a shooting exercise that policeman XXX did not
he was able to do, alluding that he had high blood pressure and that he would provide a medical report.
Noting that he met with the police officer to find out if it is a lasting issue or
transitory and exposing the motives and the lack of spirit of the police officer.

SECOND
 
requested to report:

 : In view of the facts stated in the claim, it was transferred to the

Clear specification of the causes that have motivated the incident that has given rise to

1.
to the claim.
two.
to avoid the occurrence of new incidents such as the one exposed.

Detail of the measures adopted by the person in charge to solve the incident and

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

Documentation proving that the claimant's right to be

3.
informed about the course and outcome of this claim.

It is verified that on 10/15/2018 the respondent received the document, and dated 11/26/2018,
response is received, indicating that the two reports have been sent to the claimant
They accompany in a letter of 11/19/2018.

a) The first, signed by a Chief Inspector, dated 11/2/2018, indicates on the claim-
tion that “The database to which the complainant alludes is a database of an in-
terno, which can only be accessed by using a username and password, accrediting
that access is only made by police components, which have the duty of secrecy,
keep professional secrecy”. It distinguishes between processing for administrative purposes from those for
police investigation. Adds the obligation for officials to observe secrecy over
matters that they know and manifest only accessed the database police components-
them, concluding that there has been no disclosure of secrets, lack of professional secrecy or violation
secrecy, and that no action is required considering that the data
They are protected.

The second, from the Telecommunications and Information Technology Service, dated 10/30/2018, indicates
that access to the active directory is made with username and password. "The application
“Reports and reports of the Local Police was developed by the staff and the police service.
City Council computer. Its purpose is to collect all the actions carried out by
the agents of the headquarters with an indication, among others, of filling in the "report" field
which is freely drafted by each drafting agent. Once completed, it is included in a
supervision circuit that begins with the shift manager and ends with the supervision of
the senior staff and its subsequent archive. It indicates that “all the reports had to be
reading shares for all agents”.

Regarding the "Agents application" it is developed as an auxiliary table of other
so many applications, in order to be able to record service shifts, list of agents
acting-reports and attestations, productivities made, noting that "all the
agents have access to the data of the same in equal conditions, in read only
without there being parts of it that are accessible in a restricted way by the senior staff”

An agreement to process the claim is issued on 12/4/2018.

THIRD: On February 6 and 7, 2019, written documents are received from the claimant's representative
indicating that a letter has been received from the Local Police, but not from the Protection Delegate
of Data, and that the answer does not correspond to "the facts denounced". accompanies
the Police brief, dated 11/19/2018, in which it is indicated that they are accompanied by a report from the
Chief Inspector of 2/11/2018 and another of the person in charge of implementations of the Department of
computing of 10/30/2018.

On 03/11/2019, a letter was received from the claimant indicating that he had not received

communication of the agreement reached regarding your claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

FOURTH: On 07/12/2019, the Director of the AEPD, initiated a procedure of
warning against the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1 (LOCAL POLICE) for
alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council of 04/27/2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in the
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data (as far
hereinafter, RGPD), for an infringement that is included in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD,
as stated in article 58.2.b) of the RGPD in relation to article 77.2 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of 5/12, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD).

FIFTH: On 08/02/2019, the respondent indicates in her allegations:

Report issued by the Accidental Chief Inspector of Administrative Services that in

a)
synthesis indicates:

-The start-up agreement was transferred to the information technology area, which communicates that "there have been
carried out the corrective measures to avoid the incidence to which it makes
reference the file, carrying out the creation of a computer application
specific for the preparation of personal reports and internal regime related to
Agents, guaranteeing data security and protection.”

The application is restricted to the shift manager who writes the report, the
Taxable agent of the same, and the member of the senior staff to whom the
report.

Only the managers of the Headquarters can access the application to create

reports.

Agents are advised not to use the above application”

 reports and
 ” for the preparation of writings on the internal regime or personal reports.

 

crowded
 

Letter from the “responsible for implementations of the IT area”, dated 07/29/2019

b)
which indicates the same thing.

c)

Reiterates the sending of the letter from the Local Police Chief Inspector of 11/2/2018.

Provide a copy of a document addressed to the claimant, reference YYYYY-2018 of
d)
11/8/2018 in which it appears that they send reports from 11/2/2018 and another from Informatica de
10/30/2018.

SIXTH: On 02/10/2020, a resolution proposal was issued for the literal:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the
with a warning to the CITY COUNCIL OF *** LOCALITY.1 (LOCAL POLICE), for a
infringement of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

SEVENTH: Against the proposal no arguments were received.

PROVEN FACTS

The claimant works as a local police officer in ***LOCATION.1. The performance of your
1)
job is done in part through a computer application. The application
allows you to enter information and data on the professional actions of each Agent.

The claimant provides a printed copy of a screenshot obtained from the
two)
computer platform with which it works, tab "INTERNAL REGIME" which reads:
“New internal regime” “shooting exercises not carried out by PL XXX” “shift leader”
with your number and name and surname and in the "Agents" field two agent numbers, one
that of the shift manager. The commentary narrates the events that occurred “on the occasion of the
routine shooting practices that are being carried out by the components of the squad, the
police officer PL-RRR (shooting instructor) informs me that...”, he refers to the target practice of
which the claimant police officer identified by his number XXX was part of. It is informed
who has not done the internship for more than a year and "always alleges medical problems" that
"He told me that he had high blood pressure and that he would provide a medical report." It is also indicated
also that he met with the police to find out if it is a lasting or transitory matter
and exposing the motives and the lack of spirit of the policeman.

3)
The respondent indicates in pleadings to the agreement that the content of the writing has changed.
INTERNAL REGIME, so that it has limited the users who can write, in-
browse and read these writings. A specific application has been created for this.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

In the STC 292/2000, of 11/30, the object and content of the right to

data protection in the terms set out below.

The fundamental right to data protection, enshrined in article 18.4 of the
Spanish Constitution, unlike the right to privacy of art. 18.1 EC, with whom
shares the objective of offering an effective constitutional protection of private life
personal and family, excluding the knowledge of others and the interference of third parties in
against their will, seeks to guarantee that person a power of control over their data

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

about their use and destination, with the purpose of preventing their illicit and harmful traffic to
the dignity and rights of the affected.

The right to data protection has, therefore, a broader object than that of
right to privacy, since the fundamental right to data protection extends its
guarantee not only to privacy in its dimension constitutionally protected by art. 18.1
CE, but to the sphere of the goods of the personality that belong to the sphere of life
privacy, inseparably linked to respect for personal dignity, such as the right to
honor, and to the full exercise of the rights of the person. The fundamental right to
data protection extends the constitutional guarantee to those data that are
relevant or have an impact on the exercise of any rights of the person, whether or
no constitutional rights and whether or not related to honor, ideology, personal privacy
and familiar to any other constitutionally protected property.

In this way, the object of the fundamental right to data protection is not
reduced only to the intimate data of the person, but to any type of personal data, whether or not
intimate, whose knowledge or use by third parties may affect their rights, whether or not
fundamental - such as those that identify or allow the identification of the person,
being able to serve for the preparation of their ideological, racial, sexual, economic or
any other nature, or that serve for any other use that in certain
circumstances constitutes a threat to the individual, because its object is not only the
individual privacy, already protected by art. 18.1 CE, but personal data. By
Consequently, it also reaches those public personal data, which due to the fact of
be, if they are accessible to the knowledge of anyone, they do not escape the power of disposition
of the affected party because this is guaranteed by their right to data protection.

Regarding its content, the fundamental right to data protection
attributes to its holder a bundle of faculties consisting of various legal powers whose
exercise imposes legal duties on third parties, which are not contained in the fundamental right
to privacy, and that serve the capital function that this fundamental right performs:
guarantee the person a power of control over their personal data, which is only
possible and effective imposing on third parties the aforementioned duties to do. Among them,
highlight the right to require prior consent for the collection and use of personal data.
personal data, the right to know and be informed about the destination and use of such data and
the right to access, rectify and cancel said data. This ensures the power
disposition of personal data

In the development of labor provision, civil servants like any other
employee have the right to the protection of their data, since the statutory relationship does not
except the configuration of this right, nor can it be considered as a title
legitimizer of cuts in the exercise of the fundamental rights that concern the
worker as a citizen, who does not lose his condition as such by inserting himself in the sphere of
an organization (STC 99/1994).

In this case, the comments made on the occasion of the holding of an exercise
claimant's shooting range with his instructor, which contained references to health issues,
psychological and service do not concern third parties, including among these their colleagues,
that although they are police officers and are subject to the duty of secrecy, this does not mean that it cannot be denied
who have been able to learn about the circumstances associated with the claimant, and whose purpose was not
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

is.

The facts should have been kept in the chain of ordinary management of
matters between the parties, without the possibility of employee access,
producing a revelation of the facts and a violation of their privacy.

III

The defendant is accused of committing an infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD

That points:

“Personal data will be:

“processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of personal data,
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss,
accidental destruction or damage, through the application of technical or organizational measures
appropriate ("integrity and confidentiality").

The principle of data security imposes the obligation to adopt the measures
of a technical and organizational nature that guarantee that, adding that such measures have
with the purpose of avoiding and guaranteeing that, among other aspects, by way of example,
produces an "unauthorized access" by third parties, or that third parties, not interested,
by the configuration of the application as it happens in this case they can read writings
referred to the internal management of personnel matters or internal regime. The management of
risk that the information that is associated with the personal data is not known by
those not affected or interested has failed in the development of the computer application of the
claimed, which from its design has to count on safeguarding said end so that
their confidentiality is not violated, without it being enough to adopt
any measure, since they must be those necessary to guarantee those objectives that
mark the rule. In addition, everyone responsible for a file must ensure that said
measures or mechanisms are implemented effectively in practice being
responsible that they are complied with and executed rigorously, having to carry out
periodic performance evaluations.

The GDPR broadly defines “data security breaches”.
personal” as “all those violations of security that cause the destruction,
accidental or unlawful loss or alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or
otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access to said data.” The
Security incidents must be notified to the AEPD when they constitute a risk for the
rights and freedoms of natural persons, and in this case that risk has materialized
with the provision of data to third parties, even if they were from the same group and in the circle
of police officers who manage the database and provide services at the headquarters of the requested party.

In the present case, the commission of the infraction that is given to the power
employees view the content of internal reports that are processed in management of
personnel on the obligations of the police components. In this sense, emphasis should be placed
that although the accesses are carried out using a password and username, it was not an obstacle to
that by the configuration of the accesses, each one could freely access this
report.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

III

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether it can,
and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
established in that Member State.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

a)

sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

Article 72.1.a) of the LOPDGDD indicates: “Infringements considered very serious

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

a)
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

Adding article 77.2 of the LOPGDD:

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law,
the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning
to them with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are indications
enough for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied will be the
established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning regime resulting from
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

app.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment that are not
had been duly attended to, in the resolution in which the sanction is imposed,
will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and order the
publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of
the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
protection of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional data protection authority
it will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what its regulations have
specific.”

In this sense, there is a change in the way of managing the reports of

internal regime of the local police.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

 TOWN HALL OF
FIRST: IMPOSE a sanction of WARNING on the
***LOCALIDAD.1 (LOCAL POLICE), with NIF P1103100B, for a violation of Article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF ***LOCALITY.1
(LOCAL POLICE).

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

FOURTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Electronic Registry
of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the
remaining records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1.
You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the filing
effectiveness of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the day
following the notification of this resolution, it would end the suspension
precautionary

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

