1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00338/2019

938-051119

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Mrs. A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated April 22, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against the political formation CITIZENS PARTY OF THE
CITIZENSHIP with NIF G64283310 (hereinafter, the claimed). The reasons in which
the claim is based on are as follows:

“I am sending you this complaint because, having requested the National Institute of State
(INE) the exclusion of my personal data to be transferred to the political parties
ticos for not being able to send electoral propaganda, I have received two postal items in-
traveled by political formations. I enclose a copy of the justification issued by the INE and photo-
graphs of the shipments received” (folio nº 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Doc. 1 and 2) of an envelope with the logo
of political formation and related information.

Likewise, it provides a copy of the electronic receipt presented at the INE in

date 04/06/19 confirming the Estimate of the request.

SECOND: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

THIRD: On 04/24/19 the claim is transferred to the INE (National Institute of
Statistical Office) to confirm the marking of the claimant's data, without
that any allegation has been made to date.

FOURTH: On 11/14/19, this Agency receives a written statement of allegations from the
reported stating the following:

“The claimant submitted a request for exclusion from the Electoral Census sent to
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

2/7

political parties to free themselves from sending electoral propaganda. To this end the
INE confirmed estimate of the request, which justifies the claimant by supporting document
email dated 04/06/19.

At no time did the INE inform after the submission of the Census,

of its modification for the purposes of addressing the exclusion requested by the claimant.

It is materially and legally impossible for the claimant to be able to know
requested its exclusion from the Census, especially when, as is evident, it does not manage
the Census nor are opt-out requests addressed to it.

Ciudadanos-Citizenship Party only uses this information, that of the
Electoral census, to carry out the distribution of its electoral propaganda; none
legal reproach may be required when you have managed some data provided exclusively
directly by the Public Administration and by virtue of the authorization contained in the Law
electoral

As the AEPD to whom we are addressing is aware, the representatives
candidates have access to the Census because it is provided to them by virtue of what
provided in the electoral legislation, by the Electoral Census Office in execution
of the provisions of the LOREG and by instruction of the Electoral Board.

If the Census incurred in some error or illegality, as we have said, it would not be
impute any type of responsibility to this part. Illegalities are not transmitted
like diseases, it is not a virus that can be spread.

For all of the above: requests that they be admitted, in accordance with Law, the presentations

You have allegations. (…)”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 04/22/19 a claim was filed by the complainant before this
Agency in the following terms:

“I am sending you this complaint because, having requested the National Institute of State
(INE) the exclusion of my personal data to be transferred to the political parties
ticos for not being able to send electoral propaganda, I have received two postal items in-
traveled by political formations. I enclose a copy of the justification issued by the INE and photo-
graphs of the shipments received” (folio nº 1).

Second. The complainant provides documentary evidence (Doc. No. 1) justifying
submitted to the INE on 04/06/19, by electronic appearance, with the
rubric “opposition to Parties”.

Third. Provide documentary evidence (Doc. No. 2) that proves the receipt of the letter with
the Compromis logo, containing the personal data of the same and its address in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

***ADDRESS 1.

Fourth. The call for the General Elections of April 28, 2019 took place
jo on March 5, so the deadline for submitting claims was
set from March 11 to 18, 2019.

These same deadlines apply to requests for exclusion. It is
this way because the electoral census delivered to the political parties cannot be modified
for specific elections, once the claim period has closed
of the census for said elections.

It is accredited that the presentation of the request for non-receipt of propa-
electoral ganda is produced by the complainant on 04/06/2019 12:46:47 (Schedule
peninsular).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Di-
rector of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and
to solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, the claim dated 04/22/19 is examined by me-
from which the complainant claims to have received political propaganda, despite
have exercised the right of opposition to it.

Likewise, it provides a copy of the electronic receipt presented at the INE in

date 04/06/19 confirming the Estimate of the request.

The legal tool that allows citizens to request the right of exclusion
The position that concerns us is found in the recent Organic Law 3/2018, of 5 December
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDPGDD), which introduced in its third final provision two modifications
to Organic Law 5/1985, of June 19, on the General Electoral Regime (in addition
before LOREG).

Paragraph 5 of this article 58 bis guarantees that "the recipient is provided with a way
simple and free exercise of the right to oppose this sending of propaganda
electoral".

Article 39.3 LOREG (LO 5/1985, of June 19, of the General Electoral Regime)
provides the following:

“Within the above term, any person may make a claim addressed to the
Provincial Delegation of the Electoral Census Office about their census data, if

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

either only those that refer to the rectification of errors can be taken into account
in personal data, to changes of address within the same circumscription
non-inclusion or non-inclusion of the claimant in any Section of the Census of the circumscription
tion despite being entitled to it. Elected requests will also be attended to.
who oppose their inclusion in the copies of the electoral census that are provided to
the representatives of the candidacies to carry out postal mailings of propaganda
electoral. They will not be taken into account for the called election those that reflect a
change of residence from one constituency to another, carried out after the fe-
census closing form for each election, having to exercise their right in the section
corresponding to his previous address.

In the RGPD (as well as in the LOPDGDD) the right of in-
interested in objecting -at any time- for reasons related to their situation
particular tion, to the fact that the personal data that concerns him or her are subject to treatment
based on the provisions of article 6, section 1, letters e) or f) of the RGPD, in-
including profiling on the basis of those provisions.

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 18 regulates the right of opposition in the following
following terms:

“The right of opposition, as well as the rights related to individual decisions
automated visual activities, including profiling, will be exercised in accordance with
what is established, respectively, in articles 21 and 22 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679”.

Article 21 GDPR REGULATION (EU) 2016/679 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND
OF THE COUNCIL of April 27, 2016 provides the following: "The interested party shall have
right to object at any time, for reasons related to your situation
particular, to personal data concerning him being subject to treatment under
based on the provisions of article 6, paragraph 1, letters e) or f), including the preparation
profiling on the basis of those provisions.

The data controller will stop processing the personal data, unless it accredits
compelling legitimate reasons for the treatment that prevail over the interests
ses, the rights and freedoms of the interested party, or for the formulation, exercise or
claim defense”.

Agreement 2/2019, of January 23, 2019, of the Central Electoral Board establishes the
following about this opposition:

<<1º) In order to facilitate the processing of the requests of the electors who
oppose their inclusion in the copies of the electoral roll that the Census Bureau
Electoral must deliver to the representatives of the candidacies to send
of electoral propaganda, such requests may be made prior to the
call for an electoral process, in Town Halls, Consulates and Delegations
Provincials of the Electoral Census. Likewise, they may be made in the electronic office
of the National Institute of Statistics, once the Electoral Census Office has
enabled this process.
2º) The aforementioned exclusion requests will have permanent effect until the election
tor manifests itself in the opposite direction.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

3º) The Electoral Census Office will inform the voters of the requested exclusion.
4º) This exclusion must be compatible with the representatives of the candidates
daturas may have the complete list of electors for the purposes of voting and
crutiny, with the essential data for the identification of the voter.>>

In the present case, we find two organic laws (art. 81 CE)
that regulate the matter that occupies us, understanding that based on the criterion of specialization
ity, that the matter that occupies us is that of the General Electoral Regime, and it is in
this framework where the affected exercised her right not to receive electoral propaganda.

As the exercised right has been proven, it was not done within the term
marked in the LOREG, that is, until 03/18/19 inclusive, reason that originated the
reception of electoral propaganda of the political formation -Citizens-- in their do-
usual micile.

This is not an obstacle, so that the exercised right - refusal to receive our new
goes political propaganda—unfold its effects in the following political campaigns,
as long as the affected party “does not state otherwise”.

The lists of the Electoral Census were sent to the political formations, with
the personal data updated to the closing date of the same, without stating
the opposition exercised by the complainant, having made it outside the stated period
marked by the regulations in force.

III

Article 25 of Law 40/2015 (October 1) provides the following:

”They can only be sanctioned for acts constituting an administrative infraction.
natural and legal persons, as well as, when a Law recognizes them capable
capacity to act, affected groups, unions and entities without legal personality.
dica and the independent or autonomous estates, which are responsible for the
themselves by way of fraud or negligence”.

This principle of culpability also applies to administrative offences,
because to the extent that the sanction of said infraction is one of the manifestations
of the ius puniendi of the State is inadmissible in our legal system a regime of
strict liability or no fault (STC 76/1990 -EDJ 1990/4435-)...".

Moreover, this same ruling requires guilt in the case of administrative infractions.
committed by legal persons, stating that ".... Even this Court has quali-
"correct" the principle of personal responsibility for own actions -
principle of the personality of the penalty or sanction- (STC 219/1988 -EDJ 1988/535-).

The jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, in line with that of the Constitutional Court, has
established that the sanctioning power of the Administration, as manifestations
establishment of the "ius puniendi" of the State, is governed by the principles of criminal law, meaning
basic structural principle of guilt, incompatible with a regime of res-
objective responsibility, without fault.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Thus, the SSTS of 12 (rec. 388/1994) and May 19, 1998, Sixth Section, affirm
that in the sanctioning sphere «any attempt to construct a response is prohibited
objective reliability" and that "in the field of administrative responsibility it is not enough
that the conduct is unlawful and typical, but it is also necessary that it be
guilty, that is, as a result of an action or omission attributable to its author by ma-
mischief or recklessness, negligence or inexcusable ignorance (...) that is, as a requirement
derived from article 25.1 of the Constitution, no one can be convicted or sanctioned
do but for facts that can be imputed to him by way of fraud or guilt (principle of
culpability)".

IV

Based on the foregoing, it should be noted that the complainant exercised her right to
Non-receipt of political propaganda from the aforementioned formation, outside the established period
in the specific legislation regulating the matter, without appreciating the element
subjective of guilt, having proceeded the political formation denounced through tra-
collect the data of the same, as they were sent by the Office of the Census elect-
ral.

So it is appropriate to order the File of this procedure by not

The violation of the right asserted by the complainant must be proven.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation, in accordance with the foregoing

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction in the framework of the protection
of personal data.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the denounced entity
CITIZENS PARTY OF THE CITIZENSHIP and REPORT THE RESULT OF
THE PERFORMANCES to Doña A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

