1/11

 File No.: PS/00024/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated February 23,
2021 filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against CITY COUNCIL OF FUENTES DE LEÓN with NIF
P0605500H (hereinafter the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are
the following: the claimant states that she participated in a selection process for
personnel, publishing the resolution of admitted and excluded in which the
name and surname of the participants on the Facebook page of the City Council without
that was foreseen in the general bases for contracting.

Provides the general selection bases for hiring during the year 2021 and the
pictures posted on the claimed Facebook account.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on 03/22/2021 said claim was transferred to the party
claimed, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform this Agency within the period
of a month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the foreseen requirements
in data protection regulations.

Although the respondent's response is not recorded, in his brief of 06/23/2021
indicates that it resubmits the Report as the data protection officer that has already
It had been sent on 04/16/2021 in response to the request of the AEPD and
They accompany the minute of the Exit Registry that accredits said sending.

THIRD: On 06/07/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/11

On 06/11/2021, in writing from the respondent, the following information is provided, among others:

- That, in order to prevent similar incidents from occurring, some
bases for the selection of personnel.

- Copy of the “BASES THAT MUST GOVERN THE SELECTION OF PERSONNEL. In the
fourth base that refers to the development of the tests, the following is indicated: "LIST
OF PRE-SELECTED AND CITATIONS OF THE SEXPE: …, it will approve the List
Definitive list of shortlisted candidates, which will be displayed on the Notice Boards and
link in the corporate social networks of the City Council.”

On 06/23/2021, in writing from the respondent, the following information is provided, among others:

- Report from the mayor regarding the transfer of the claim and request for
information.

 - That, on 01/27/2021, the claimant published on her personal Facebook profile a
reference to his participation in the selection process to which he refers in his
claim.

- Screenshots of messages from the claimant.

- That, on 02/03/2021, the Provisional List of Admitted and Excluded was published
on the Notice Board of the Town Hall, on the Notice Board of the headquarters
City Council email address and on the City Council's corporate Facebook profile.

- Screenshot of a message posted by a profile with the same name as
the claimant in which she refers to her exclusion from the manager selection process
cultural.

- That it registered entry of the transfer of this claim, sent by the AEPD, on the day
03/22/2021; and, on 04/09/2021, the deletion of the Facebook profile of the
claimed from the documents of this selective process in which the
name and surname of the claimant.

 - Copy of the Claimant's Resolution, signed on 04/09/2021, in which
the following is resolved: "That they be deleted from the Facebook profile of a
of the City Council of Fuentes de León the documents related to the
selection procedure for a Cultural Manager for the year 2021, where it appears
the names and surnames of Mrs. A.A.A..” and that this resolution be notified to the
claimant. And a copy of the notification of the resolution is provided with the date of signature of the
04/13/2021.

- That, up to the date on which this document is sent, the City Council had not received
no request from the claimant to exercise the rights regulated in the
articles 15 to 22 of the General Data Protection Regulation;
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/11

  - That the application of the application of Law 19/2013, of December 9, of
Transparency, Access to Public Information and Good Governance

- That the application of Law 4/2013, of May 21, on the Open Government of
Extremadura, which develops Law 19/2013,

  - That the application of Law 7/1985, of April 2, Regulating the Bases of
Local Regime,

  - That they have published the lists of admitted and excluded to which reference is made
in the claim on your Facebook profile (in addition to the Notice Board
traditional and the electronic headquarters of the City Council, as indicated in the call)
as a common practice in recent years to give publicity and transparency to the
council resolutions, following the guidelines of the Royal Legislative Decree
5/2015, of October 30, which approves the consolidated text of the Law of the
Basic Statute of the Public Employee,

- Indication that the following measures have been implemented to prevent incidents
similar: to state in the regulatory bases of the calls the use of networks
social for the diffusion and publicity of the selective processes; and what, when
contain personal data, the publication on social networks will be done through an en-
link to the bulletin board of the electronic headquarters of the claimed person.

In the searches carried out by the acting inspector on 01/12 and 13/2022 in
Internet found the following data:

- The links in which the complainant indicated that the lists of
admitted and excluded with their names and surnames directed to a page in which
indicated that the link is wrong or has been deleted.

- In the Facebook profile of the claimed party, the publications of
on 02/05/2021 and 11/02/2021 presented in the claim, in which the
lists of admitted and excluded.

- The existence of publications on Facebook in which a profile with the name of
the complaining party informed about its participation in the selection process of Manager
Cultural of the claimed have not been able to be verified after carrying out
searches by the date of these posts on the Facebook profile with the name
of the claimant and on the Facebook profile of the claimed party.

FIFTH: On 02/18/2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the person claimed for the alleged infraction
of article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SIXTH: Once the initiation agreement was notified on 03/05/202, the respondent submitted a written
allegations formulating in summary the following: that it is reiterated in what has already been indicated
previously; that the publication on social networks of the data of the call

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/11

in which the claimant participated has sufficient legitimacy based on
section e) of article 6.1 GDPR.

SEVENTH: On 03/16/2022, it was agreed to open a practice period for
tests, remembering the following:

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection services that are part of the file.

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement of
home submitted by the claimed party and the accompanying documentation.

EIGHTH: On 07/13/2022, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense that by
the Director of the AEPD will sanction the defendant for infraction of article 6.1 of the
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, with a penalty of warning.

After the period established for presenting allegations by the defendant, there was no
submitted any writing.

NINTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 02/23/2021 it has entry in the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Written data of the claimant stating that she had participated in a process of
selection of personnel convened by the respondent, publishing the resolution of
admitted and excluded in which the name and surnames of the participants in the
Facebook page of the City Council, including the name and surnames of the
claimant, without it being foreseen in the general bases for contracting.

SECOND. There is a screen print provided where the Provisional List of
Admitted and Excluded Plaza Gestor Cultural published by the respondent.

THIRD. There is a Mayor's Resolution approving the "General Bases
of Selection of a cultural manager during the year 2021” and the tests are convened
selection process for hiring a Cultural Manager.

FOURTH. The Bases that must govern the selection of personnel are provided
for the hiring of personnel under Decree 13/2021, of March 17,
which establishes the conditions of budget management and execution of the
Municipal Economic Collaboration Program for Employment of Law 1/2021, of 3
February, of General Budgets of the CCAA of Extremadura for 2021.

FIFTH. It is provided by the claimed Report of 04/15/2021 in which
notes that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/11

“Notwithstanding all of the above, the AEPD is informed that the defendant has been using
a year or two ago, regularly their corporate Facebook profile to advertise
all personnel selection processes (informative notices, publication of
Bases, provisional and final lists, Minutes) in order to give a more widespread
to citizens, observing at all times compliance with the regulations
in force in data protection.

Although such information is published and can be followed on the Notice Board of the
Town Hall (Physical and traditional Notice Board at the entrance of the House
town hall and the one that works in the Electronic Headquarters of the Municipal Website), these
are much less accessible and unknown by citizens, the first
especially in the last year as a result of restrictions on access to the
City Hall as a result of the Covid-19 Pandemic and the latter, for
lack of habit or for the convenience of citizens, more accustomed to the use of
Social Networks, as is the case of Facebook.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with [Insert the text corresponding to [Basic text I
PS].] and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the rights
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve this
procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
Data processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with
subsidiary character, by the general rules on administrative procedures
you."

II

In this case, the facts revealed by the claimant are
materialize in the publication of the resolution of admitted and excluded in which figure
name and surname of the participants, in a selective process convened by
the one claimed on its Facebook page without it being foreseen in the general bases.
rals of said call.

Article 6, Legality of the treatment, establishes in its point 1 that:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if at least one of the following is met

conditions:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/11

a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
final for one or several specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the
interested party is a party or for the application at its request of pre-contractual measures
contractual;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of an applicable legal obligation.
cable to the data controller;
d) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject or
of another natural person;
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in
public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the controller
of the treatment;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests per-
guided by the data controller or by a third party, provided that on
such interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms
data of the interested party that require the protection of personal data, in
particularly when the interested party is a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the treatment

conduct carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

On the other hand, article 4 of the RGPD, Definitions, in its sections 1, 2 and 11,

notes that:

“1) «personal data»: any information about an identified natural person
or identifiable ("the interested party"); An identifiable natural person shall be considered any person
person whose identity can be determined, directly or indirectly, in particular by
you an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, data
of location, an online identifier or one or several elements of the identity.
physical, physiological, genetic, psychic, economic, cultural or social nature of said person.
na;

“2) «processing»: any operation or set of operations carried out
about personal data or sets of personal data, either by procedures
automated or not, such as the collection, registration, organization, structuring, conservation
vation, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by
transmission, dissemination or any other form of authorization of access, collation or interco-
connection, limitation, suppression or destruction;

“11) «consent of the interested party»: any manifestation of free will, is-
specific, informed and unequivocal by which the interested party accepts, either through a
declaration or a clear affirmative action, the treatment of personal data that
concern”.

1. The documentation in the file shows that the defendant violates
nered article 6 of the RGPD, since I treat the personal data of the participants
in the process of selecting a cultural manager for the year 2021, among which are
smuggled the claimant, posting them on her Facebook page without any legal basis

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/11

that legitimize it.

The defendant himself has indicated that he has been using his Facebook profile for a long time.
cebook to publicize the personnel selection processes (Bandos informative, pu-
publication of Bases, provisional and definitive Lists, Minutes) in order to give a ma-
Greater diffusion for the knowledge of the neighbors.

It should be noted that the processing of personal data requires the
existence of a legal basis, in accordance with the provisions of article 6.1 of the
GDPR.

Therefore, data processing requires the existence of express consent.
consent of the interested party for one or more specified purposes, when necessary to
the execution of a contract in which the affected party is a party or for the application, at the request
of this, of pre-contractual measures, or when necessary for the satisfaction
tion of legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a
third party, provided that said interests do not prevail the interests or rights
rights and fundamental freedoms of the affected party that require the protection of such data.
cough. The treatment is also considered lawful when it is necessary for the fulfillment
establishment of a legal obligation applicable to the data controller, to protect
vital interests of the affected party or of another natural person or for the fulfillment of a
mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers vested in the
data controller

In any case, the RGPD excludes the possibility that the treatments carried out
made by the authorities in the exercise of their functions may have as a legal basis
treatment letter f) of art. 6.1 RGPD, that is, the legitimate interest.

Well, in the present case there is no legal basis whatsoever that legitimizes the transaction.

treatment made by the defendant.

2. The respondent considers that the publication and dissemination on social networks of the
data from the call in which the claimant participated has sufficient legitimacy
mation in section e) of article 6.1 RGPD that provides "e) the treatment is ne-
necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise
of public powers conferred on the person responsible for the treatment”.

However, it should be noted that the data processing will be covered by
letter e) of art. 6.1 if the applicable law has attributed a competence to the Administration
nistration by a norm with the force of law, art. 8.2 of the LOPDGDD, and will not be in
opposite case.

Article 6.1.e) of the RGPD only considers the processing of personal data lawful.
on the basis of said precept if it is necessary for compliance
of a mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of public powers con-
transferred to the data controller. Therefore, if a given treatment is not
“necessary” for the fulfillment of the mission carried out in the public interest or in the exercise

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/11

service of the public powers conferred by the legal system, said treatment not only
would lack sufficient legitimating legal basis provided for in section e), but rather,
In addition, it would violate the principle of data minimization contained in article 5.1.c)
RGPD, also applicable to data processing carried out by the Administration
public nostration.

In the present case, the treatment is not necessary for the fulfillment of
that public interest or in the exercise of public powers conferred on the controller,
stating that it violates article 6.1 of the RGPD and, in addition, in none of the regulations
invoked impose said obligation, establish that mission of public interest or con-
public powers are conferred to carry out the treatment.

The infraction that is attributed to the claimed is typified in the art.
Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, which considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the ar-
Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable.

IV

The LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that: “They constitute violations
tions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to this law
organic”.

And in its article 72, it considers for prescription purposes, which are: "Infringements

considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
entail a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular,
ticular, the following:

(…)
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.

(…)”.

v

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories

responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to treatments

of which they are responsible or entrusted:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions
tions of the autonomous communities analogous to them.
b) The jurisdictional bodies.
c) The General State Administration, the Administrations of the communities
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

9/11

autonomous entities and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
d) Public bodies and public law entities linked to or de-
pending from the Public Administrations.
e) The independent administrative authorities.
f) The Bank of Spain.
g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment
related to the exercise of powers of public law.
h) Public sector foundations.
i) Public Universities.
j) The consortiums.
k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous communities, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations
them.

2. When the persons in charge or persons in charge listed in section 1
had any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will issue resolutions
tion sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will also establish
as the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct the effects
cough of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the
gain of which it depends hierarchically, in his case, and to those affected who had the
Interested party status, if any.

3. Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding section, the protection authority
tion of data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when
there are sufficient indications for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to
apply will be those established in the legislation on the disciplinary or sanctioning system.
dor that results from application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers,
and the existence of technical reports or recommendations for treatment is proven
that had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the corresponding Official State or Autonomous Gazette.
gives.

4. The resolutions must be communicated to the data protection authority.
tions that fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the
previous two paragraphs.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the institutions
analogous of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions
tions issued under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

10/11

Data, it will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions
ferred to the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the
identity of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infringement
tion.

When the competence corresponds to a regional protection authority
of data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what is available
its specific regulations.

In the case that concerns us, the present sanctioning procedure comes
motivated by the presumption that the respondent would have incurred in violation of the
regulations on data protection, article 6.1 of the RGPD.

It should be noted that the LOPDGDD contemplates in its article 77 the sanction of
warning in relation to the processing of personal data that is not appropriate
Cuen to your forecasts. In this regard, article 83.7 of the RGPD contemplates that "Without
prejudice to the corrective powers of the supervisory authorities under article
58, paragraph 2, each Member State may establish rules on whether it can, and
To what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
established in that Member State.

Likewise, it is contemplated that the resolution issued will establish the measures
that it is appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases, the effects of the infraction are corrected
that had been committed and its adaptation to the requirements contemplated in article
6.1 of the RGPD, as well as the provision of means of proof of compliance with the
required.

However, it is considered that the answer formulated by the respondent in the
Report of 04/15/2021 in relation to the claim presented has been reasonable, at
include the deletion of the corporate Facebook profile of the City Council
documents relating to the selection procedure of a Cultural Manager for the year
2021, where the names and surnames of the claimant appear, not proceeding
to urge
additional.

adoption

measures

of

the

 

 

 

 

 

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF FUENTES DE LEÓN, with NIF
P0605500H, for an infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5
of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF SOURCES OF
LION.

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/11

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

