 

Anu Talus 
Chair of the European  Data Protection  Board 
 

 

Ms Gallego 
Directorate-General for Justice and Consumers 
European Commission 
1049 Brussels 
 
Brussels, 13 December 2023 
 

by e-mail only 
Ref: OUT2023-0098 
 
Subject: EDPB reply to the Commission’s Initiative for a voluntary business pledge to simplify the 
management by consumers of cookies and personalised advertising choices – DRAFT PRINCIPLES 
(Ref. Ares(2023)6863760) 
 

Dear Ms Gallego,  

Thank you for your letter of 10 October 2023, regarding the initiative for the voluntary cookie pledge 
launched  by  Commissioner  Reynders,  and  for  requesting  the  EDPB’s views  on  the  draft pledge 
principles.  

The EDPB welcomes the Commission’s initiative to gather stakeholders and promote discussions  and 
exchanges of views  on  the use  of cookies  and  any other systems  used  for  tracking users’ online 
navigation. The EDPB supports actions that aim at simplifying the management by users1 of cookies 
and personalised  advertising choices  and empowering users’ control over their personal data and 
privacy, in compliance with the GDPR 2 and ePrivacy Directive. 3  

In the view of the EDPB, the aim of the initiative should be to help protect the fundamental rights and 
freedoms of users, empower them to make effective choices, and provide a platform for stakeholders 
to exchange views. While voluntary commitments may be a useful tool, the pledging principles should 
by no means be used to circumvent legal obligations. In addition, undertaking voluntary commitments 
does not equate or guarantee compliance with the applicable data protection and privacy framework. 
They are without prejudice to the exercise of supervision  and enforcement powers of  competent 
national  authorities,  including  authorities  competent to  supervise  compliance  with  the  national 

                                                             
1 References in this letter and its annex to “users” and “data subjects” are interchangeable. 
2 OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1–88. 
3 OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p.37, as amended by OJ L 337, 18.12.2009, p. 11–36. 
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

 

implementation law(s) of the ePrivacy Directive and authorities competent to supervise compliance 
with the GDPR. 4  

The EDPB understands from your letter that more work is needed to propose pledge principles that 
would allow a majority of interested parties to adhere to them. For this reason, the EDPB considers it 
useful to draw your attention to relevant guidance of the EDPB, and its predecessor the Article 29 
Working  Party, referred to  in  the Annex  to this  letter to inform  your  further  work on  the  draft 
principles.  

The EDPB remains available to continue assisting you further in the development  of these pledge 
principles with a view to simplifying the management by users of cookies and similar technologies and 
personalised  advertising choices  while  empowering users,  in  full  compliance  with the  GDPR and 
ePrivacy Directive.  

 
Yours sincerely, 

Anu Talus 
 

 

 

                                                             
4 The EDPB does not address any specificities of national implementation laws of Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive 
in this letter. In addition, the EDPB notes that it has not consulted national competent authorities responsible 
for the supervision of the national implementation laws of the ePrivacy Directive that are not a supervisory 
authority pursuant to Article 51 GDPR.  
European Data Protection Board 
Rue Wiertz, 60 
1047 Brussels 
 

ANNEX - FEEDBACK ON THE COOKIE PLEDGE DRAFT PRINCIPLES 
 

In this Annex, the EDPB provides remarks to inform the further work on the draft principles. Where 
relevant, the EDPB’s remarks and analysis of certain draft principles is grouped together. The EDPB’s 
observations on any of the draft principles, or lack thereof, should not be understood as endorsement. 
In addition, the EDPB’s feedback on the draft principles should not be understood as endorsement of 
the use  of  cookies  for purposes  of  behavioural  or  personalised  advertising, which  may be highly 
intrusive  and  raise  additional  legal  issues,  even  if  conducted  in  adherence  with  the  principles. 
Supervisory authorities maintain the prerogative to assess individual cases and exercise their powers 
if necessary. The EDPB takes the view that a case by case analysis remains necessary to assess whether 
access or storage of information in terminal equipment and subsequent processing of such information 
is compliant with the ePrivacy Directive, as implemented in national laws, and with the GDPR. 

1  GENERAL REMARKS 

The EDPB understands from the Commission’s  letter that the cookie pledge voluntary initiative refers 
to cookies and any other systems tracking users’ online navigation. Considering that the monitoring of 
online (and potentially offline) behaviour may take place via different tools, 1 the EDPB welcomes that 
the  scope  of  the  initiative  is  broader  than  cookies  used  for  online  behavioural  or  personalised 
advertising. 2 The EDPB shall therefore in its analysis  refer to access and storage of  information in 
terminal equipment in accordance with Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive, irrespective of the technology 
used to store or gain access to that information.  
The EDPB shall in  its feedback of the draft principles  not analyse all requirements to obtain valid 
consent  in  accordance with  Article 4(11)  and 7  GDPR. It would  however like  to  highlight certain 
requirements for consent for access and storage of information in terminal equipment to be valid that 
do not seem to be reflected in the draft principles, namely: 

1)  data subjects must express their consent with an affirmative action. For example, the mere 
continuation of browsing a website or the use of general browser settings allowing the use of 
cookies do not constitute consent; 

2)  where consent is required, no access or storage of information in terminal equipment must 

take place before valid consent is obtained; and 

3)  data subjects must be able to withdraw their consent at any time, withdrawing consent must 
be as easy as giving consent, and data subjects must be informed of how to withdraw consent 
when asked to give their consent. 

 

                                                             
1 See in this respect e.g. EDPB Guidelines 2/2023 on Technical Scope of Art. 5(3) of ePrivacy Directive, adopted 
on 14 November 2023; Article 29 Working Party Opinion 9/2014 on the application of Directive 2002/58/EC to 
device fingerprinting, adopted on 25 November 2014; and Article 29 Working Party Opinion 2/2010 on online 
behavioural advertising, adopted on 22 June 2010. 
2 The EDPB recommends to clearly reflect the scope in the draft principles, which as currently drafted appear 
exclusively focussed on the  use of  cookies as such. This is the  more  pertinent considering technological 
developments and the ongoing discussion on the phasing out of third party cookies. 

 

1 

Furthermore, the EDPB emphasizes the information requirement. The information given to users on 
the access and storage of information in terminal equipment and the processing of personal data at 
the time consent is sought, is of paramount importance to ensure that a valid consent can be obtained.  
Finally, the EDPB also recalls the lex generalis – lex specialis relationship between the GDPR and Article 
5(3) ePrivacy Directive, which the EDPB has explained in several Opinions and Guidelines. 3 

2  DRAFT PRINCIPLE A 

A.  The  consent  request will  not  contain  information  about  the  so-called  essential  cookies  nor  the 
reference to collection of data based on legitimate interest.  
 
As essential cookies do not require consent, not showing information about them in the context of the 
request for consent will reduce the information that users need to read and understand. In addition, 
legitimate interest is not a ground for data processing based on Article 5(3) of the ePrivacy Directive 
so it should not be included in the cookie banner. Where applicable, the issue of subsequent processing 
of data based on legitimate interest should be explained in the privacy notice.  
 
1) Information regarding ‘essential’ cookies 
 
The controller must, in accordance with Articles 12-14 GDPR, inform the user of the processing of 
personal data that is accessed or stored in terminal equipment. This requirement applies to access or 
storage of information for purposes  that do and do not require consent under Article 5(3) ePrivacy 
Directive. The EDPB agrees, however, that detailed information on the use of strictly necessary cookies 
that are exempt from consent under Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive should be presented distinct from 
a consent request (for which only information relevant to the consent request should be provided). 
The EDPB refers to the Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/6794 for further guidance.   
Taking into account the above, the EDPB recommends clarifying in draft principle A that it remains 
necessary  to  provide  users  with  information  in  accordance with  Articles  12-14  GDPR whenever 
personal data are processed, even if the access or storage of information in terminal equipment does 
not require consent under Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive. Information about the processing of personal 
data via the use of strictly necessary cookies could for example be accessible via a link on the first layer 
of the cookie banner, directing to the relevant section in the privacy policy, or the information could 
be provided on the second layer of the cookie banner, provided that the requirements of Articles 12-
14 GDPR are complied with. 5   
The EDPB notes that the notion of “essential cookies” used in draft principle A may be misunderstood 
to cover more purposes than the two narrowly defined purposes which are exempt from the obligation 
to obtain consent pursuant to Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive. As mentioned in the report of the Cookie 
                                                             
3  See  for example EDPB Opinion 5/2019 on the  interplay between the  ePrivacy Directive and the GDPR, in 
particular regarding the competence, tasks and powers of data protection authorities, paragraph 40. See also 
EDPB Guidelines 01/2020 on processing personal data in the context of connected vehicles and mobility related 
applications, adopted on 9 March 2021, paragraph 14; and EDPB Report of the work undertaken by the Cookie 
Banner Taskforce, adopted on 17 January 2023, paragraphs 1-3. 
4 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 29 November 
2017, last Revised and Adopted on 11 April 2018. See also Article 29 Working Party Working Document 2/2013 
providing guidance on obtaining consent for cookies, adopted on 2 October 2013, p. 3. 
5  In this regard, see also Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679, 
paragraph 27, regarding the timing for the provision of information.  

 

2 

Banner Taskforce, some controllers may incorrectly classify certain cookies and processing operations 
as “essential” or “strictly necessary”, which would not be considered as such within the meaning of 
Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive, or under GDPR. 6 The EDPB therefore recommends changing the term 
“essential” to “strictly necessary” within  the meaning of Article 5(3)  ePrivacy Directive. For  more 
information on “strictly necessary” cookies, the EDPB refers to Opinion 04/2012 on Cookie Consent 
Exemption. 7 
 
2) No reference to ‘to collection of data based on legitimate interest’ 

The EDPB agrees that users should not be presented with information ‘referring to collection of data 
based on legitimate interest’ in the cookie banner, as this is not a valid legal basis under the ePrivacy 
directive for access or storage of information (including collection of data) in terminal equipment. 8  

In addition,  the EDPB recalls that consent  under  Article 6(1)(a) GDPR will  generally be the  most 
adequate legal basis  for  the processing  of personal  data that takes places after access or storage 
thereof in  terminal equipment  based  on  consent  under  Article 5(3)  ePrivacy Directive.9 To avoid 
misunderstanding, the EDPB recommends stating this in Principle A. 

3  DRAFT PRINCIPLES B, C, AND D 

B. When content is  financed at least partially  by advertising  it will be explained upfront when users 
access the website/app for the first time.  
 
From the moment a business  obtains  revenues either i) by exposing  consumers  to tracking-based 
advertising by collecting and using information about consumers’ online behaviour through trackers 
or ii) by selling to partners the right to put trackers on consumer’s devices through their website, the 
consumers need to be informed of the business model in question at least at the same time as when 
cookie consent is required. Asking consumers to read complex cookie banners and only after they did 
not consent confronting them with a “pay or leave” ultimatum, could be considered manipulative.  
 
C. Each business model will be presented in a succinct, clear and easy to choose manner. This will include 
clear explanations of the consequences of accepting or not-accepting trackers.  
 
Most cookies are used to implement a business  model and therefore this concomitance should  be 
easily described, understood and implemented in one joint panel regrouping the agreements under 
consumer law and consent under the e-Privacy/GDPR law. In this panel, the business model options 
(i.e. accepting advertising based on tracking, accepting other types of advertising or agreeing to pay a 
fee) will be presented together with the consequences in terms of the purpose of trackers, and this in 
plain and simple language.  
 
D. If tracking based advertising or paying  a fee option are proposed, consumers will always have an 
additional choice of another less privacy intrusive form of advertising.  
                                                             
6 EDPB Report of the work undertaken by the Cookie Banner Taskforce, adopted on 17 January 2023, paragraph 
26. 
7 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 04/2012 on Cookie Consent Exemption, adopted on 7 June 2012. 
8 EDPB Report of the work undertaken by the Cookie Banner Taskforce, adopted on 17 January 2023, paragraph 
24. 
9 See e.g. EDPB Guidelines 01/2020 on processing personal data in the context of connected vehicles and mobility 
related applications, adopted on 9 March 2021, paragraphs 14-15. See similarly also EDPB Report of the work 
undertaken by the Cookie Banner Taskforce, adopted on 17 January 2023, para.1-2. 

 

3 

 
In view of the extremely limited number of consumers who accept to pay for online content of various 
sorts and as consumers may navigate tens of different websites daily, asking consumers to pay does 
not appear a credible alternative to tracking their online behaviour for advertising purposes that would 
legally require to obtain consent.  
 
The EDPB supports the objective of draft principles to enhance transparency on the business models 
used  by  stakeholders and  to promote advertising models  that are less  intrusive  than behavioural 
advertising. However, the EDPB highlights that beyond the consumer perspective, special attention 
should  be paid to the protection of the terminal equipment as provided for by Article 5(3) ePrivacy 
Directive. 
Draft principles  B-D relate to the provision  of valid consent under Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive in 
conjunction with Article 4(11) and Article 7 GDPR, more in particular whether consent is freely given 
and informed, and will therefore be discussed together.  
With regard to valid consent, the EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 clarify that in order to determine whether 
consent is freely given, it must be taken into account whether: 

i. 
ii. 

iii. 
iv. 

there is any imbalance of power between the controller and data subject; 10 
consent  is  conditional,  e.g. whether  consent  is  “bundled”  with  acceptance of  terms  or 
conditions; 11  
consent is granular and is asked for each individual purpose; 12 and  
it is possible to refuse or withdraw consent without detriment. 13  

 
Consent can only be valid if the data subject is able to exercise a real choice, and there is no risk of 
deception, intimidation, coercion or significant negative consequences (e.g. substantial extra costs) if 
they do not consent. Consent will not be free in cases where there is any element of compulsion, 
pressure or inability to exercise free will. 14 These elements must among others be taken into account 
when consent for access or storage of  information in terminal equipment used  for tracking based 
advertising is asked.  
The EDPB also explained in  Guidelines  05/2020 which elements of  information are at a minimum 
required to obtain valid consent. 15 The EDPB agrees with the concepts enshrined in principles B and C 
stating that the user must  be provided  with clear information  at the moment consent is  sought. 
Moreover, the provided information about alternative models/services to the provision of consent to 
the access or storage of information in terminal equipment for advertising purposes  may serve as a 
relevant factor when  assessing  whether consent  for  access or  storage of  information  in  terminal 
equipment is valid. At the same time, the EDPB notes that ‘information on the business models’ could 
be  understood  in  different  ways  and  recalls  that it  may  not  substitute  information  obligations 
                                                             
10 EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020, paragraphs 16-24. 
11 EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020, paragraph 26. 
12 EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020, paragraphs 42-44. 
13 EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020, paragraph 46. 
14 EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, paragraph 24. 
15 EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020, paragraph 64: i. 
the controller’s identity; ii. the purpose of each of the processing operations for which consent is sought; iii. what 
(type of) data will be collected and used; iv.the existence of the right to withdraw consent; v. information about 
the use of the data for automated decision-making in accordance with Article 22 (2)(c) where relevant; and vi. 
information on the possible risks of data transfers due to absence of an adequacy decision and of appropriate 
safeguards as described in Article 46. 

 

4 

regarding access  or  storage  of  information  in  the  terminal  equipment  and  on  the  processing  of 
personal data.  
The EDPB notes that a business model using contextual advertising is not mentioned in draft principle 
B as means for a business to obtain revenue. Such business model may involve the accessing or storing 
of information in terminal equipment and the processing of personal data, although generally much 
more limited than a business  model  that relies on the tracking of users  and presenting them with 
behavioural  or personalised  advertising. The EDPB considers  that just  as for  the business  models 
currently referred to in draft principle B, users should be informed of a business model using contextual 
advertising at least at the same time as when they are requested for consent for the use of cookies, 
and therefore recommends that the type of advertising used is explained clearly (e.g. behavioural or 
contextual advertising). In other words, the EPDB recommends to also make reference to contextual 
advertising in principle B.  
Draft principle C provides  as alternative to advertising based on tracking “accepting other types of 
advertising”. Draft principle D refers to “another less privacy intrusive form of advertising”. The EDPB 
understands in this context that services that use the mentioned types/forms  of advertising are not 
offered for a fee and recommends to explicitly clarify this in the principles. The EDPB recommends 
adding to both draft principles (C and D) a reference to contextual advertising as an example of another 
type/form of advertising, where such a business model is being operated.  

The EDPB recalls that controllers that are gatekeepers pursuant to the Digital Markets Act 16 must 
comply with the respective requirements regarding the offering of alternative services. Recital 36 of 
the Digital Markets Act provides that gatekeepers should enable users to freely choose to consent to 
the processing of  their personal data, by offering a less  personalised  but equivalent alternative.17 
Recital 37 explains that, in principle, the less personalised alternative should not be different or of 
degraded quality. 18   
The EDPB notes that it cannot in abstracto assess whether the offering of a paid alternative to a service 
that involves tracking, mentioned in draft principles B-D, would ensure that a valid consent could be 
obtained for any processing for tracking of users for advertising purposes. When assessing whether 
consent is valid, the EDPB considers it among others relevant whether in addition to a service using 
tracking technology and a paid service, another type of service is offered, for example a service with a 
less privacy intrusive form of advertising, such as contextual advertising, and whether the data subject 
is able to exercise a real choice.  
The European Court of Justice ruled in its judgment of 4 July 2023 that in the specific circumstances it 
assessed, it must be possible  for a user to refuse to give consent without the user being obliged to 
refrain entirely from using the service. It considered that those users are to be offered, if necessary for 
an appropriate fee, an equivalent alternative not accompanied by the data processing operations in 
question. 19  This  means  that if  users  decide not  to  give  any consent,  only  storage and accessing 
                                                             
16 OJ L 265, 12.10.2022, p. 1–66. 
17 Recital 36 Digital Markets Act: “[t]o ensure that gatekeepers do not unfairly undermine the contestability of 
core platform services, gatekeepers should enable end users to freely choose to opt-in to such data processing 
and sign-in practices by offering a less personalised but equivalent alternative, and without making the use of the 
core platform service or certain functionalities thereof conditional upon the end user’s consent.” 
18 Recital 37 Digital Markets Act: “[t]he less personalised alternative should not be different or of degraded quality 
compared to the service provided to the end users who provide consent, unless a degradation of quality is a direct 
consequence of the gatekeeper not being able to process such personal data or signing in end users to a service.” 
19 Judgment of 4 July 2023, Meta Platforms and others (General terms of use of a social network), C-252/21, 
ECLI:EU:C:2023:537, paragraph 150. 

 

5 

processes that are exempted from consent under Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive may be carried out. 
The EDPB notes that the aforementioned analysis may differ depending on the circumstances of the 
case.  
Taking into account the above, the EDPB recommends that the draft principles reflect the need for a 
case by case analysis of whether consent is freely given and valid, taking into account the different 
options provided to the user.  
For the sake of completeness, the EDPB also recalls that cookies may serve multiple functions, beyond 
the implementation of a business model. The EDPB therefore recommends that the first sentence of 
draft principle C is amended to indicate that “cookies may be used to implement a business model”.  

4  DRAFT PRINCIPLE E  

E. Consent to cookies  for advertising  purposes  should  not be necessary for  every single  tracker. For 
those  interested, in  a  second  layer, more information  on  the  types  of  cookies  used  for  advertising 
purposes should be given, with a possibility  to make a more fine-grained selection.  
 
When users agree to receive advertising, it should be made clear to them at the same time how this is 
carried out  and especially  if  cookies, including  if  relevant third-party cookies,  are placed  on their 
device. It should  not be necessary for them to check every single tracker. Indeed, this may request 
checking one to two thousand different partners, making the choice totally ineffective and either giving 
an illusion  of  choice or discouraging people  to read further, leading them to press  “accept all” or 
“refuse  all” buttons. This  principle  should  be  without prejudice  to stricter rules in  other  sectoral 
legislation, such as the DMA. 

Draft principle  E also  relates to the requirements of  valid consent. The EDPB recalls its Guidelines 
05/2020, as also mentioned in its feedback to draft principles B-D. More in particular, the EDPB points 
out that for consent to be valid, it must be freely given, 20 and it must be specific. 21  
The EDPB recommends explicitly confirming in the draft principles that individuals should be provided 
with the opportunity to “reject” all cookies  that are not strictly necessary on  the first layer of the 
banner. At a minimum, it should be clarified that if an “accept” (or “accept all”) button is presented on 
any layer, then a “reject” (or “reject all”) button should also be presented as this would be an essential 
element in favour of the validity of consent. 22  
Further, as discussed  above, for consent to be valid, the user must be informed among others about 
the  identity  of  the  controller  that  asks  for  consent  to  access  or  store  information  in  terminal 
equipment, which information it concerns, and for what purpose. 23  
The EDPB agrees that it is possible to consent to cookies  for a specific advertising purpose without 
necessarily requiring users to separately consent to every single tracker or partner on the first layer of 
a cookie  banner, combined  with the possibility  for  the user to make a more granular choice per 

                                                             
20 See also EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020, section 
3.1.  
21 See also EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020, section 
3.2.  
22 See also EDPB Report of the work undertaken by the Cookie Banner Taskforce, adopted on 17 January 2023, 
Type A Practice – “No Reject Button On The First Layer”. 
23 EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020, paragraph 64. 

 

6 

controller per specific purpose on the second layer. Compliance with the GDPR requirements for valid 
consent of such set-up must be assessed taking into account among others Guidelines 05/2020, 24 the 
Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/67925 and the Guidelines 03/2022. 26 Further, the 
specific circumstances of the implementation are relevant. For example, the EDPB considers it unlikely 
that the use of a very large number of partners for a single purpose would meet the requirements of 
necessity and proportionality  and consent would therefore unlikely  be  valid. The EDPB, therefore, 
suggests to clarify that, in any case, consent must be, in particular, informed and unambiguous, and 
that this may be more difficult to achieve if the number of partners is increasing.  
Further, the EDPB suggests specifying that the user, when asked for consent, should be provided with 
the identity of the actors that actually access/store information in the terminal equipment and/or with 
whom data is subsequently shared, if applicable, and should  not be provided with a list of potential 
actors.  

5  DRAFT PRINCIPLE F 

F. No separate consent for cookies used to manage the advertising model selected by the consumer 
(e.g. cookies  to measure performance of a  specific  ad  or to perform contextual advertising) will  be 
required as the consumers have already expressed their choice to one of the business models.  
 
One reason of the cookie fatigue is that all types of cookies are very often described in a lengthy and 
rather technical  fashion  that render an  informed  choice  complex and  cumbersome  and  de facto 
ineffective. Furthermore, from  the moment the business  model  is  made clear and agreed by the 
consumer, the need of businesses  to measure the performance of their advertising services can be 
deemed  inextricably  linked  to  the  business  model  of  advertising,  to  which  the  consumer  has 
consented. Other cookies  not strictly necessary for  the delivery  of  the specific  advertising service 
should still require a separate consent.  
 
As mentioned, according to data protection rules, consent must be requested for a specific purpose of 
the processing. Such purpose must be well defined and precise, in order to determine which processing 
activities take place  for  the purpose. 27  Further, for  consent  to  be  valid,  purposes  should  not  be 
combined. 28 If a user consents to access or storage of information in their terminal equipment for a 
well  described  advertising  purpose,  such  purpose  may  concern  technical  processing  operations 
intrinsically linked  to the advertising purpose, such  as the use of cookies for frequency capping or 
measuring the effectiveness of ad campaigns. Such technical processing operations may involve access 
or storage of  information in  terminal equipment. The users  should  be informed  of  such  technical 
                                                             
24 EDPB Guidelines 05/2020 on consent under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 4 May 2020. 
25 Article 29 Working Party Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 29 November 
2017, last Revised and Adopted on 11 April 2018.  
26 EDPB Guidelines 03/2022 on Deceptive design patterns in social media platform interfaces: how to recognise 
and avoid them, adopted on 14 February 2023. 
27 Article 29 Working Party Opinion 03/2013 on purpose limitation, adopted on 2 April 2013, p. 15-16: “The 
purpose of the collection must be clearly and specifically identified: it must be detailed enough to determine what 
kind of processing is and is not included within the specified purpose, and to allow that compliance with the law 
can be assessed and data protection safeguards applied. For these reasons, a purpose that is vague or general, 
such as for instance 'improving users' experience', 'marketing purposes', 'IT-security purposes' or 'future research' 
will - without more detail - usually not meet the criteria of being ‘specific’.” See also Article 29 Working Party 
Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679, adopted on 29 November 2017, last Revised and 
Adopted on 11 April 2018, paragraph 12. 
28 Recital 32 GDPR: “When the processing has multiple purposes, consent should be given for all of them.” 

 

7 

processing operations, for example on the second layer of the cookie banner. Conversely, the consent 
to use of cookies for specific advertising purposes  would not extend to other processing operations 
that are not strictly necessary for that purpose, such as the collection and use of email addresses of a 
website to send marketing emails.  
The EDPB also notes that draft principle F refers to a business model “agreed” by the consumer and a 
model of advertising to which the consumer has “consented”. Under Article 5(3) ePrivacy Directive, 
consent is given to access or storage of information (e.g. cookies) in the user’s terminal equipment. 
The EDPB recognizes that for an advertising business model, cookies may be used, and recommends 
for the sake of clarity clarifying the explanation to draft principle F, by referring to consent for the use 
of cookies for a specific model of advertising, as opposed to consent to a model of advertising.   

6  DRAFT PRINCIPLE G 

G. The consumer should not be asked to accept cookies in one year period of time since the last request. 
The cookie to record the consumer’s refusal is necessary to respect his/her choice.  
 
One major reason of the cookie fatigue especially felt by the persons most interested in their privacy 
is that negative choices are not recorded and need to be repeated each time they visit a website or 
even every page of a website. Recording such choice is indispensable for an efficient management of 
a  website  and  for  respecting consumers’  choices.  Furthermore,  to  reduce  the  cookie  fatigue, a 
reasonable period e.g. a year should be adopted before asking again for consumers’ consent.  
 
The EDPB understands that the scope of draft principle G relates only to the recording of a user’s 
refusal to, or withdrawal of, consent. The EDPB recommends clarifying the first sentence of the draft 
principle in this respect.  
The EDPB agrees that to make the refusal to, or withdrawal of, consent effective, it may be necessary 
to record the decision of the user for a certain period, in order to reduce the frequency of consent 
request a user receives. The EDPB believes the proposed period of one year to be adequate for this 
purpose.  
In  addition,  draft principle  G  on  the  recording  of  “negative consent”  requires  further  details  to 
effectively implement it. In particular, the EDPB recommend clarifying that the record of the “negative 
consent” relying on cookies should not contain a unique identifier, but should rather contain generic 
information, a flag or code, which is common to all users who have refused consent. The EDPB recalls 
that cookies recording the refusal of consent may be deleted by the user, or deleted due to a change 
of technical settings, within the one-year period. In such event, when the controller does not have 
access to the record of the consent refusal anymore, the EDPB considers it reasonable to prompt the 
user with a new consent request.    
The EDPB further recalls that gatekeepers subject to the Digital Markets Act are already subject to 
rules  on  the frequency of  prompting users  to  give consent, who initially  did  not  consent or  who 
withdrew their consent. 29 

                                                             
29 Recital 37 Digital Markets Act: “Gatekeepers should not design, organise or operate their online interfaces in a 
way that deceives, manipulates or otherwise materially distorts or impairs the ability of end users to freely give 
consent. In particular, gatekeepers should not be allowed to prompt end users more than once a year to give 
consent for the same processing purpose in respect of which they initially did not give consent or withdrew their 
consent.” 

 

8 

7  DRAFT PRINCIPLE H 

H. Signals from applications providing consumers with the possibility to record their cookie preferences 
in advance with at least the same principles as described above will be accepted.  
 
Consumers should have their say if they decide that they want to systematically refuse certain types 
of  advertising  models.  They  should  be  empowered  to  do  this  and  privacy  and  data protection 
legislation should not be used as an argument against such a choice provided the automated choice 
has been made consciously.  

The EDPB recognises the abilities of software applications to empower users to protect their terminal 
equipment. The EDPB encourages the employment of data protection by default or design in such 
applications. The EDPB believes that software settings are a useful tool for users and supports the 
objective of draft principle H to enable users to express their choice to refuse any access or storage of 
information in terminal equipment via such settings. The EDPB believes that a pledge to respect the 
signals/settings expressing a user’s refusal, and to not still ask users for consent, could help to reduce 
cookie fatigue.  
Conversely, the EDPB considers that caution is necessary when aiming to use software settings to 
express affirmative consent. For consent to be valid, users must make an active choice (i.e. a default 
“yes” would not constitute a valid consent), and it must among others be specific and informed, with 
regards to the specific context in which this consent is given. The EDPB notes that it has not assessed 
yet any current use of signals from applications or software settings regarding the use of cookies that 
offer the granularity, specificity and information to ensure that consent can be validly given in advance. 
Finally, the EDPB agrees that privacy and data protection legislation should not be used as an argument 
to not give effect to an individual’s preference to systematically refuse certain types of advertising 
models.  

 

 

9 

