 

 

 

 

THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

April 21, 2022

 Education Center: Freedom of Information

Basic videos and in-depth seminar on June 2nd

 

Watch videos, deepen content in a seminar, submit LIFG applications

- the BIDIB training center at the state representative

for the

Privacy and Freedom of Information provides basic videos on

Self-study for the area of freedom of information and in addition

regularly

in-depth seminars

to the

application

of

State Freedom of Information Act

(LIFG).

That

next

Advanced seminar will take place on Thursday, June 2, at 10 a.m.

 

The total of six videos on the LIFG cover the entire content

basic area. After the video training, citizens know

how to submit LIFG applications quickly and effectively, and

Representatives of reporting bodies how to process these applications

answered appropriately and correctly. The shortest video has a length

of almost 7 minutes, the longest lasts about 32 minutes.

 

The videos can be viewed in self-study. They are

descriptive, self-contained and can be used in any order

to be viewed as. If you want, you can follow the in-depth seminar

attend on June 2nd. If the participants choose certain aspects

If you want to deepen the basics part, you can ask your questions and

Submit topic requests. The speakers then address them.

 

- 2 -

The Training Series

is designed as a two-part format. That

However, an in-depth seminar is offered as an option. On the homepage

of the state commissioner, the video training “Fundamentals of

Freedom of Information” and the in-depth seminar booked free of charge

will

(https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-

events/).

 

In-depth course on the basics of freedom of information

Time: Thursday, June 2, 2022 / 10 a.m. - 1 p.m

Location: Internet (BigBlueButton) and presence

Registration until Thursday, May 26, 2022, on the homepage of the

State representative: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-veranstaltung-2022-732v/

The video training series “Fundamentals of

freedom of information”

contains:

 
1. Scope and principles

2. Reasons for protection and rejection

3. Protection of personal data

4. Intellectual property and industrial and/or trade secret protection

5. Procedure and Costs

6. The State Commissioner for Freedom of Information (§ 12 LIFG)

Registration on the website of the state representative:

https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/offene-veranstaltung-

2022-701/

