1/33

 

 

 

 

Litigation Chamber
 
                                                                 Decision on the merits 44/2022 of 28 March 2022

 
File number: DOS-2019-03592
 
Subject: Complaint for unlawful processing following a request for access on the basis of Article 15
GDPR
 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr. Dirk Van

Der Kelen, acting chairman, and Messrs. Frank De Smet and Yves Poullet, members;

 

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the

free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the

data protection), hereinafter "GDPR";

 

Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter "LCA";

 

Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on December 20

2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

 

Considering the documents in the file;

 
made the following decision regarding:

 
The complainant :
 

 

The defendant :

Mr. X, hereinafter "the plaintiff"; and

.
 .

.
.
Y, represented by Me Erik Valgaeren and Me Jan Joos, lawyers at the bar of
.
.
Brussels, whose office is located at 25, rue de Loxum in 1000 Brussels, hereinafter

"the defendant".

 
I. Facts and procedure

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 2/33

1. On June 26, 2019, the complainant filed a complaint with the Data Protection Authority (hereinafter

"the DPA") against the defendant. The complainant states in his complaint that on March 29, 2019, he

exercised his right of access vis-à-vis the defendant. He states that the request for access concerned the

processing of his personal data in the context of the appointment procedure

organized by the defendant for the appointment of the members (of the management) of the APD. the

complainant clarified that his request was of a general nature, but that it concerned more

particularly the report presented to the Conference of Presidents on behalf of the Commission

Justice of the defendant in the aforementioned proceedings.

The complainant specified by e-mail of April 1, 2019 that he had received an acknowledgment of receipt and that he had received the 25

April 2019 a second e-mail from the defendant communicating the personal data to him on

re. The Complainant states that he put several additional questions to the Respondent by

email of May 7, 2019, more specifically concerning the recipients of his personal data

personal as well as the presumed inadequacy of this data. The complainant states that he received

a response from the Respondent to the above-mentioned questions and remarks by email dated May 27, 2019.

The Complainant attaches to its complaint the above-mentioned e-mail exchanges with the Respondent as

vouchers.

2. In his complaint, the Complainant alleges the following alleged breaches of the GDPR on the part of the

defendant:

i.

non-disclosure of information in accordance with Article 13 of the GDPR: the

complainant considers that he did not receive sufficient information on what happened

of the data concerned and in particular on the persons with whom they have been

shared;

ii.

the absence of prior information to the complainant in accordance with Article 13 of the GDPR to

about the registration of the motivation of his candidacy;

iii.

the absence of a valid processing basis for registration in accordance with

GDPR article 6.1. The complainant states that this requires in principle the consent

;

iv.

the non-communication of all

the personal data processed.

The complainant states that the deliberations of the Justice Commission as well as the report

to the Commission of Presidents have not been communicated and that it is unlikely that he

there would be no written trace of it;

v.

failure to provide the information referred to in Article 15.1 of the GDPR. The complainant

specifies in this respect that the information relating to what the defendant does globally

personal data has not been communicated; and

vi.

the fact that the processing does not comply with the condition referred to in Article 5.1 c) of the GDPR,

namely the processing of insufficient or inadequate personal data

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 3/33

to be able to achieve the purpose of the processing (the secret ballot concerning the application

of the complainant).

 

3. On July 1, 2019, the aforementioned complaint is declared admissible by the Front Line Service

on the basis of article 58 juncto article 60 of the LCA and the complaint is transmitted to the Chamber

Litigation under article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

4. On July 23, 2019, the Litigation Chamber decides to suspend the processing of the complaint in

awaiting the delivery of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the context of the

question referred to the Court by the Verwaltungsgericht Wiesbaden (Germany) in

VQ v. Land Hessen (C-272/19), worded as follows:

 
“Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data

and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (general regulation

on data protection - GDPR), in this case article 15, Right of access of the person

concerned, find application to the Committee of the Parliament of a federated state of a state

member competent to deal with petitions from citizens, in this case the Committee on

petitions from the Parliament of Hesse, and should the latter be regarded in this respect as

a public authority within the meaning of Article 4(7) GDPR?”

 

The Litigation Chamber is of the opinion that the answer to this preliminary question is

relevant for the subsequent examination of the present case, since it also concerns the

processing of personal data in the context of the work of a committee

parliamentary.

 

5. By letter and e-mail dated July 23, 2019, the Litigation Chamber informed the parties of this

suspension of the processing of the file, specifying that the most diligent party is free to pay

the Court's response to the case, in due course.

6. On July 9, 2020, the Court of Justice delivers its judgment in the aforementioned case C-272/19. In this

judgment, the Court confirms the applicability of Article 15 of the GDPR to a Committee on Petitions of the

parliament if and to the extent that it (alone or jointly with others) determines the

purposes and means of processing, must be considered as "controller"

within the meaning of Article 4.7 of the GDPR, so that the processing of personal data by

this commission falls within the scope of the GDPR and more specifically, Article 15

of the GDPR.

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 4/33

7. On March 11, 2021, the Litigation Chamber forwards the complaint to the Inspection Service pursuant to the

articles 63, 2° and 94, 1° of the LCA for in-depth investigation, given that it considers that the documents

submitted do not yet allow a decision to be taken pursuant to Article 95 of the

ACL.

8. On August 18, 2021, the Inspector General sends his inspection report to the President of the Chamber

Litigation, in accordance with Article 91, § 2 of the LCA.

9. On August 27, 2021, the Litigation Chamber decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and Article 98

of the ACL, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

10. On August 27, 2021, the parties concerned are informed by registered letter of the provisions

referred to in Article 95, § 2 as well as in Article 98 of the LCA. The parties concerned are also

informed, pursuant to Article 99 of the LCA, of the deadlines for transmitting their conclusions.

11. The deadline for receipt of the Respondent's submissions in response has been set for 22 October

2021, that for the plaintiff's reply submissions of November 12, 2021 and that for the

Respondent submissions of the Respondent as of December 3, 2021.

12. On September 15, 2021, the parties are informed that the hearing will take place on December 9

2021.

13. On October 22, 2021, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in response from the

respondent.

14. On November 12, 2021, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in reply from the

complainant.

15. On December 2, 2021, the Litigation Chamber receives the submissions in reply from the

respondent.

16. On December 9, 2021, the parties are heard by the Litigation Chamber.

17. On December 15, 2021, the minutes of the hearing are submitted to the parties.

18. On December 20, 2021, the Litigation Chamber receives the defendant's remarks regarding the

minutes, which are annexed to the minutes of the above-mentioned hearing and

taken up by the Litigation Chamber in its deliberation.

19. On December 20, 2021, the Litigation Chamber received the complainant's remarks regarding the

minutes, which are annexed to the minutes of the above-mentioned hearing and

taken up by the Litigation Chamber in its deliberation.

 

 

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 5/33

II. Motivation

II.1. II.1 Identification of the data controller (article 4.7) of the GDPR)

20. The Litigation Chamber appoints the data controller for the

treatment complained of. In accordance with article 4.7 of the GDPR, it is necessary to consider

as controller:

“the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or

together with others, determine the purposes and means of the processing; when the

purposes and means of this processing are determined by Union law or the law of a State

member, the controller may be designated or the specific criteria applicable to its

designation may be provided for by Union law or by the law of a Member State”.

21. In this respect, it should be emphasized that in its case-law, the Court of Justice has repeatedly

given a broad definition to the concept of "controller", in order to ensure protection

effective and complete of the persons concerned. The Court of Justice has also confirmed on several occasions

occasions that for the identification of the controller(s) of the processing, an assessment was necessary

factual information of the natural person(s) or the legal person(s) who determine(s)

"the purposes" and "means" of the processing, the concept being broadly defined with a view to

protect those affected.

22. The complaint lodged by the complainant falls within the framework of the procedure for appointing

members (of the Board of Directors) of the Data Protection Authority. In accordance with

article 39 and following of the LCA, it is Y who is competent for the appointment of the members

aforementioned.

23. In its report, the Inspection Service firstly indicates in this respect that on 12 February 2018, a

call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Gazette by Y for the mandates of member of the

direction of the Data Protection Authority, in which it was specified that the candidates

could submit their candidacy to the Chairman of Y no later than thirty days after the

publication of this notice of appeal. The Inspection Service specifies that at the end of the final date

for the introduction of applications, a note was drafted by the General Secretariat of Y to

intended for the Conference of Presidents, including a list of the candidatures submitted but

without the candidates' CVs. After agreement of the Conference of Presidents, the

Y departments forwarded a copy of the candidates' curriculum vitae to the presidents or

secretaries of political factions.

24. It appears from the documents in the file and from the investigation report drawn up by the Inspection Service that the

candidates were then heard on January 30, 2019 and February 13, 2019 in the Justice Committee

and that on this occasion, each member of this commission received a paper version of the

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 6/33

applications, including resumes and cover letters. The hearing took place at

behind closed doors and was followed by oral deliberations for which no report was drawn up.

25. The report of the Inspection Service's investigation indicates in this respect that the current practice used

by Y for nominations is as follows:

 

“- the documentation of the candidates (letter of motivation and c.v.) is kept, throughout the

duration of the reflections and the deliberation, by the presidents or the secretaries of the fractions

policies;

- the documentation of the candidates (letter of motivation and c.v.) is not distributed within the

fraction, but only made available for consultation within the framework of the

nomination ;

- the documentation of the candidates (letter of motivation and c.v.) is destroyed after the vote”.1

all quoted extracts from the inspection report are free translations made by the

General Secretariat of the Data Protection Authority]

 

The aforementioned procedure was therefore also applied in this case.

 

26. It appears from the documents in the file and from the report of the investigation of the Inspection Service that the defendant

has taken the initiative for the processing concerned, namely the collection and processing of data to

personal character in the context of the procedure for appointing members (of the management) of

the Data Protection Authority. The defendant determined the purpose and the means of the

processing in question (appeal in the Belgian Monitor, organization of the vote, collection and processing

personal data, privacy statement in the context of appointments,

etc.) within the meaning of Article 4.7 of the GDPR.

27. Based on the foregoing, it must be concluded that the Respondent should be considered as

the data controller for the processing operations in question within the framework of the

selection and that the responsibility therefore falls to him, in accordance with article 5.2 juncto article

24 of the GDPR, to ensure compliance with the principles of the GDPR and to demonstrate this compliance.

 

 

1 Investigation report, p. 7-8.

 

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 7/33

II.2. The principles relating to the processing of personal data and the lawfulness of the

processing (Art. 5 and 6 GDPR)

Findings of the Inspection Service

 

28. In its investigation report, the Inspection Service finds that the defendant allegedly committed

violation of Articles 5.1 a) and 6.1 of the GDPR.

29. More specifically, the Inspection Service first comes to the conclusion that the realization

of audio recordings by the defendant during the hearings of the Justice Commission within the framework

of the processing activity "Appointments and presentations by Y" does not meet the requirement of

necessity included in the aforementioned provisions and as explained by the Court of Justice

of the European Union. The Inspection Service declares that the legal basis invoked (art. 6.1 c) of the

GDPR) is not in itself in question for the aforementioned processing activity, but that

the use of audio recordings does not comply with the concept of "necessity", which

would also affect the lawfulness of the processing. The Inspection Service considers that the registration

audio can only be considered "useful" but not "necessary" and contributes

only to improve the quality of the martyr text.

30. Secondly, the Inspection Service concludes in its investigation report that

the use of the aforementioned audio recordings would not be transparent (referring to

in this regard to finding (3). 2

 

Complaint and conclusions of the complainant

31. The Complainant states in its Complaint and in its Reply submissions that Article 6.1 of the

GDPR cannot provide a basis for the audio recording of its explanations made during

the hearing before the Justice Commission.

32. Complainant submits that the absence of a valid basis of lawfulness stems from the absence of any

information on the legal basis in accordance with Article 13 of the GDPR, since this information

would provide proof of the legal basis invoked by the defendant.

  

 

 

 

2 Investigation report of the Inspection Service, p. 17.

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 8/33

Respondent's Submissions

33. In its submissions, the Respondent states in relation to this finding that:

 

1.

the audio recordings that take place during the hearings of the Justice Commission

indeed constitute a necessary instrument for the drafting of the martyr texts of these

auditions and are used for that purpose only. The defendant draws attention to

the fact that a martyr text is a draft text which can still be amended or modified. the

defendant points out that in the use of audio recordings, certain aspects of

the hearing could be reported inaccurately or incompletely, which would have a

undeniable and irrevocable impact on the guarantee of the quality of parliamentary work,

causing the defendant to fail in its mission of public interest.

It specifies that the rapporteur of the hearing must draw up a report, which is delivered in

Conference of Presidents. The defendant declares that for the drafting of such a lawsuit-

verbal, the rapporteurs can choose to use the martyr text. He specifies that the appeal

to this martyr text by the rapporteurs is optional, but if the rapporteur

calls for a martyr text, it must indeed be available. The defendant insists on the

fact that it is therefore necessary to make an audio recording of each hearing in order to

to be able to present such a martyr text if the rapporteur so requests.

The defendant further adds that the audio recordings are only made available

provision of the services of Y which are responsible for drafting the martyr text. He states that those

these are only accessible during the period of the writing of the martyr text by these

services and for the time necessary to receive and answer questions from the

rapporteur and that at the end of this period, they are deleted.

 

2.

the processing which is the subject of the first finding concerns (only) the performance

audio recording during Justice Commission hearings. The defendant considers

that the Inspection Service wrongly declares that the making of the recording could not

be considered only as an independent treatment or a partial treatment only "if one

communicate clearly on this subject to the data subject" (page 17 of the report

inspection). The Respondent asserts that such a finding is erroneous and contrary to the

GDPR.

The defendant states that the GDPR does indeed oblige data controllers to inform

data subjects about their processing activities (art. 12 to 14 inclusive of the

GDPR), but that the communication of this information does not in any way constitute

the establishment or qualification of a given activity as "processing"

distinct within the meaning of the GDPR. The Respondent adds to this that with regard to the finding

5, the Inspection Service itself seems to be of the opinion that making a registration

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 9/33

audio constitutes a separate processing activity: "The Inspection Service finds

that in itself, the register of processing activities is incomplete since the processing activity

relating to audio recordings was not provided for" (p. 28 of the inspection report).

 

3.

correct compliance with the information obligations under Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR does not

nor does it represent a constitutive condition for the existence of a legal basis for the

processing on the basis of Article 6.1 of the GDPR. He asserts that non-compliance with obligations

information does not as such constitute a violation of Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR and

has in principle no impact on the lawfulness of the processing on the basis of Article 6.1 of the GDPR.

 

4. with regard to the purpose of the processing, the making of the audio recording

constitutes an essential related condition for the subsequent processing activity,

know the writing of a martyr text of the hearing using the audio recording. the

defendant declares that the two processing activities jointly pursue the

following purposes: (i) to ensure at all times the quality and integrity of the minutes of

hearings and (ii) ensure at all times the quality and accuracy of parliamentary proceedings

in the appointments. The audio recordings and the martyr texts bring

greater neutrality in the minutes of the rapporteurs and improve

the completeness of the minutes, with a view to preserving

the quality of the work

parliamentarians.

 

5.

the guarantee of the quality and integrity of the minutes of hearings and proceedings

parliamentarians in the context of appointments is indisputably part of the mission

of public interest entrusted to the defendant.

 

The Respondent clarifies that for the above reason, in previous letters, he did not

therefore not only invoked the legal basis of Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR (like the

implies the Inspection Service) but also the legal basis of Article 6.1 e) of the

GDPR. The Respondent asserts that the organization of appointments and presentations

also constitutes a legal obligation incumbent on the defendant, which is not

contested by the Inspection Service (p. 17 of the inspection report). He adds to this that

as the organization of appointments and presentations constitutes a legal obligation,

their correct organization, and therefore the guarantee of the quality of such work, constitutes a

intrinsic part of this same legal obligation.

 

6.

the constant case law of the Court of Cassation provides that the registration of a

conversation in which one participates oneself is not illicit, even if it is done without the knowledge of

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 10/33

other attendees. The defendant

refers in this respect in particular to

:

  

▪

 Cas. September 9, 2008, RG P.08.0276.N: "Notwithstanding the protection of

private communications provided for in these contractual provisions, the sole fact

to record such a conversation in which one participates oneself, is not

illicit even if this recording is made without the knowledge of the other participants.”

▪

  Cas. (2nd c.) November 17, 2015, RG P.15.0880.N: "Neither Article 8.1 of the Convention

[European Court of Human Rights], nor does article 314bis of the Penal Code prohibit

the simple recording of a conversation by a participant in this conversation

without the knowledge of the other participants.”

 

34. Finally, the Respondent states that the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority

also makes audio recordings of its hearings, which make it possible to establish a

minutes of the hearing and that there are no specific legal provisions concerning the performance

such audio recordings. The defendant states that he assumes that this treatment is based

also on the legal basis of necessity for a task in the public interest and/or on the basis

legal requirement for the performance of a legal obligation (although there is no legal obligation

specific law for making the actual audio recording).

 

Assessment by the Litigation Chamber

35. In accordance with the principle of lawfulness set out in Article 5.1 a) of the GDPR read in conjunction with Article

6.1 GDPR, processing of personal data is only lawful if and to the extent

where at least one of the following conditions is met:

a) "the data subject has consented to the processing of his or her personal data for

one or more specific purposes;

b)

processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is

party or the execution of pre-contractual measures taken at the latter's request;

vs)

processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller

treatment is submitted;

d)

processing is necessary to protect the vital interests of the data subject

or another natural person;

e)

the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or falling

the exercise of official authority vested in the controller;

f)

the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller

processing or by a third party, unless the interests or freedoms and rights

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 11/33

fundamentals of the data subject which require data protection to be

personal character, in particular when the data subject is a child."

 

36. In the present case, the Litigation Division finds that for the disputed processing, the

defendant invokes both Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR and Article 6.1 e) of the GDPR. In his conclusions

in response, the Respondent in effect states the following:

“In his previous letters, the controller therefore not only

invoked the legal basis of Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR (as suggested by the Inspection Service),

but also the legal basis of Article 6.1 e) of the GDPR:

"The purpose of this data processing is the appointment of the members of the bodies of

the Data Protection Authority in accordance with the [LCA]. This data processing is

therefore necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller

is subject (article 6.1.c) of the GDPR) or at least necessary for the performance of a mission of interest

public authority vested in the data controller (article 6.1.e) of the GDPR). (Part 1) (setting

clean fat).

Furthermore, the organization of appointments and presentations by Y constitutes an obligation

legal, which is not disputed by the Inspection Service (p. 17 of the inspection report). Seen

that the organization of appointments and presentations constitutes a legal obligation, it goes without saying

itself that their correct organization, and therefore the guarantee of the quality of such work, constitutes

also an intrinsic part of that same legal obligation.” 3 [Editor's note: the excerpts quoted from

conclusions of the parties are free translations made by the General Secretariat of

Data Protection Authority]

37. The Litigation Chamber considers that the defendant was not subject to a legal obligation in

as such within the meaning of Article 6.1 c) of the GDPR for the disputed processing, namely the

audio recordings of the hearings. In this case, the Litigation Chamber nevertheless considers

be able to validly invoke the legal basis set out in Article 6.1 e) of the GDPR, according to which the

processing is necessary "for the performance of a task in the public interest or in the exercise of

the public authority vested in the controller". In relation to the above, the

Recital 45 of the GDPR and Article 6.3 of the GDPR clarify that processing based on Article 6.1

e) GDPR "should have a basis in Union law or in the law of a Member State".

The GDPR thus excludes a "mission of public interest" or "relating to the exercise of authority

public" is entrusted to the data controller by virtue of a contract, even if this contract was

concluded

in

interest

audience.

 The Litigation Chamber finds in this respect that the defendant is entrusted with the mission of interest

aforementioned public pursuant to articles 39 e.s. of the ACL.

3 Respondent's submissions, p. 7.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 12/33

38. The Litigation Division considers that it can be accepted that the disputed processing is necessary

with a view to guaranteeing the quality and integrity of the minutes of hearings and guaranteeing the quality

and the accuracy of parliamentary proceedings in the appointment of Committee members

management, the Knowledge Center and the Litigation Chamber of the Authority of

Data protection.

39. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes in this respect that the missions of public interest or falling within

the exercise of official authority vested in data controllers is often not

not based on precisely described legislative obligations or standards. Treatments

are instead carried out on the basis of a more general authorization to act, as required by the execution

of the mission. Controllers who wish to invoke Article 6.1 e) of the GDPR on

the basis of such a legal basis must then themselves carry out a weighting between the

necessity of the processing for the mission of general interest and the interests of the persons concerned.

40. In its case law - notably in the Huber judgment - the Court of Justice of the European Union

emphasizes in this respect that the concept of "necessity" within the meaning of Article 6.1 e) of the GDPR must be

assessed in the light of proportionality and that, in other words, if several alternatives

exist to achieve the intended purpose, the least intrusive should be chosen.4

41. The necessity and proportionality of the measure must therefore be more precisely

demonstrated with regard to the absence of less intrusive means for the rights and freedoms of

data subjects through which the intended purposes could also be achieved.

42. In this regard, the Respondent argues that "the making of the audio recording [is] indeed

necessary in order to ensure at all times, via the successive processing of the drafting of the martyr text,

the quality and integrity of the minutes of the hearings. In the absence of audio recording (and therefore

in the absence of a martyr text if the rapporteur so requests), certain aspects of the hearing may

indeed be reported incompletely or erroneously. This would have an undeniable impact and

irrevocable on the guarantee of the quality of the work of parliament, which would therefore fail in its mission

of public interest" 5. The defendant declares that there is no other means of accomplishing

correct this mission of public interest.

43. The Litigation Division considers that the foregoing has been demonstrated in the present case and does not

therefore finds no violation of Articles 5.1 a) and 6.1 of the GDPR with regard to the

lawfulness of the disputed processing.

44. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes, however, that the processing must be foreseeable for the

data subject and in this respect draws attention to the importance of respecting the principle of

4 CJEU, Huber, C-524/06, ECLI:EU:C:2008:724, par. 59-61.
5 Respondent's submissions, p. 7.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 13/33

transparency and the principle of limitation of storage in the case of audio recordings (see

hereinafter Title II.4).

 

II.3. Data minimization and adequacy of personal data (Art.

5.1 c) GDPR)

Complaint and conclusions of the complainant

45. According to the complainant, when processing his personal data in the context of the

appointment procedure, the respondent violated Articles 5.1 a) and 5.1 c) of the GDPR.

46. With regard to this last provision, the Complainant alleges a violation of the principle

of adequacy referred to in Article 5.1 c) of the GDPR, given that the personal data

dealt with would have been inadequate to allow the secret ballot about the candidates to

proceeds appropriately.

Findings of the Inspection Service

47. In its investigation report, the Inspection Service states that no violation of Articles 5.1 a)

and (c) cannot be ascertained.

Respondent's Submissions

48. With regard to the Complainant's grievances regarding the Respondent's alleged breach of

Article 5.1 a) and c) of the GDPR, the defendant argues that:

 

1.

the DPA is not competent to carry out a concrete assessment of the minimization of

given in connection with an appointment procedure carried out by the respondent.

The defendant declares that he agrees on this point with the position of the Inspection Service in the report

of the investigation, where the latter states the following: "with regard to this specific point, the

rather [raises] questions about the precise ("quality") requirements of a

(concrete) evaluation within the framework of an appointment procedure to which he must

comply, rather than raise an issue of (non-)compliance with the GDPR. Since this

concrete aspect does not fall within the competence of the Authority, the Inspection Service

will not elaborate on this point raised." (Inspection report, page 20)".

 

In this regard, the Respondent argues, inter alia, the following in its Reply submissions:

 

(i) Jurisdiction defined by law

In accordance with article 4, § 1 of the DPA Law, the Data Protection Authority is

responsible for monitoring compliance with the fundamental principles of data protection

of a personal nature, within the framework of the APD law and laws containing provisions relating to

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 14/33

to the protection of the processing of personal data. This provision reflects

Article 57 of the GDPR where the tasks of the controllers are taken up and where the control of the application

GDPR takes center stage.

The Litigation Chamber is the administrative litigation body of the Protection Authority

data (article 32 of the APD law). Under article 4, § 1 of the APD law, the Chamber

Litigation has only the competence to rule on disputes arising from the application

personal data protection legislation.

Consequently, the Litigation Chamber is not competent to verify the application

correctness of an appointment procedure governed by law. Y points out in this regard that under

of article 14 of the law of January 12, 1973, the Council of State is competent to rule on

appeals for annulment of appointments by legislative assemblies.

As an administrative litigation body, the Litigation Chamber is also bound by

the law that it cannot ignore, nor address preliminary questions on this subject to the Court

constitutional law concerning the legality or the interpretation of the legislation in question.

 

(ii) Complainant's Claims Regarding Competence

Y observes first of all that the plaintiff states - rightly - the following: "The conclusive is

aware that it is not for the Litigation Chamber to assess the lawfulness or compliance

of the appointment procedure with the provisions of the GDPR. This analysis is incumbent on the power

court." (p. 7 of the complainant's conclusions)

 

It is therefore surprising that the complainant then criticizes several points relating to the conduct

of the appointment procedure which (i) are in direct contradiction with the above position and (ii)

have no connection with alleged data breaches at

personal nature and for which the Litigation Chamber is not competent as

such. These include, among others, the following allegations:

-

“The foregoing raises the question of whether and to what extent members

of the various fractions have or obtain knowledge of these data. The responsibility of

ensuring that this is the case falls to the services of Y...". (p. 11);

-

"The applicant has no legal remarks concerning this part of the processing of

data, but it refers to the chaotic and inefficient organization of language tests in

question...” (p. 12);

-

"Unless I am mistaken, no official record of the members who were present at this meeting is

published, but such a document must be easily presented by the services of Y." (p. 14)

;

-

"At the hearing on February 13, 2019, not all political factions were represented."

(p. 15);

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 15/33

- If the candidatures are the subject of a deliberation by the Justice Commission, it is advisable to

note that the Justice Commission takes the decision itself and therefore proceeds to or

influences a vote which, according to Y's rules, is reserved for all individual members

of Y.” (p. 15);

-

"The concluding party observes in this regard that the appointment procedure must not only be

transparent towards him as a data subject, but that the aim is that this

procedure is transparent for all citizens, as part of the requirement that the procedure

must make it possible to guarantee the independence of the members." (p. 17);

-

“It is surprising that during the plenary meeting it was not referred in any way or to any

time to special requirements in terms of language, ...". (p. 17);

It is clear that such statements are intended only to question the validity and

the correct application of the appointment procedure of article 39 of the APD law as well as its

confrontation with the provisions of Articles 51 and 53 of the GDPR. As explained above at

several times, and moreover acknowledged by the complainant himself, such verification is not

the competence of the Data Protection Authority.

 

2.

the principle of data minimization refers to the obligation to process only the data

of a personal nature that are adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the

with regard to the purposes for which they are processed. The defendant refers to the directives of the

European Data Protection Board in this respect and asserts that it follows that the

concept of data minimization has only a limiting function. It limits the possibility for

a controller to process personal data to data that

are necessary for the intended purposes. The defendant asserts that neither the provisions of the GDPR,

nor do the available guidelines support an interpretation of the principle of minimization of

data imposing an obligation to process a minimum number of personal data

person to achieve the intended purpose. The Respondent states that this interpretation requires

indeed a judgment of opportunity for which the APD is not competent.

The Respondent concludes that the Complainant cannot in any way invoke the principle of

minimization of data to assert that the members of Y did not have

enough personal data to be able to make an informed decision

in the context of the vote.

 

 

Assessment by the Litigation Chamber

49. According to Article 5.1.c) of the GDPR, the personal data processed must be "adequate,

relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are

processed" ("data minimization").

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 16/33

50. The Litigation Division first notes on the basis of documents in the file that there is no

no indication that the complainant's personal data processed by the respondent

are excessive or irrelevant in light of the purposes of the processing (i.e. the appointment

members (of the management) of the APD).

51. With regard to the complainant's complaint that the personal data processed

would have been inadequate, the Litigation Chamber considers - like the Inspection Service

in its investigation report6 - that it is not for it to carry out a concrete assessment

concerning the data which were or were not taken into account by the defendant during the selection

and appointment. The Litigation Chamber indicates in this respect that the final selection is made

through a vote by members of parliament.

52. The Litigation Chamber considers that this grievance of the complainant concerns rather the way in which the

appointment procedure has been carried out and not the (non-) compliance of the data processing with

personal nature relating thereto with the provisions of the GDPR.

53. The Litigation Division therefore finds no violation of Article 5.1 c) of the GDPR.

 

II.4. The obligation of information and transparency (art. 5.1. a), 12.1 and 13 of the GDPR)

Findings of the Inspection Service

54. In its investigation report, the Inspection Service finds that the defendant allegedly committed

violation of the obligation of information and transparency set out in Articles 5.1 a), 12.1 and 13 of the

GDPR given that neither the privacy statement of the defendant nor the invitations (of the 30

January and 13 February 2019) at the hearing before the Justice Commission addressed to the complainant

included information regarding the audio recording that was made of the hearing

aforementioned.

Complaint and conclusions of the complainant

55. In this regard, the Complainant first indicates in its Reply submissions that the Respondent

stated that a separate privacy statement relating specifically to appointments

and presentations had been taken from the defendant's website in which the information

needed were provided.

56. The complainant stated, however, that when he submitted his application, no

no such statement appeared on the defendant's website. The latter specifies that this is

more precisely demonstrated via a check on web.archive.org (using the page containing

legal information [...]), from which it would appear that a privacy statement has been added

6 Investigation report, p. 20.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 17/33

on the aforementioned page between 27/05/2019 and 12/11/2019.7 The complainant states that this seems

indicate that there was previously no privacy statement on the website. the

plaintiff states that it is for the defendant to indicate when which statement was

included on the website as well as, where applicable, on which page this addition is located.

57. Secondly, the Complainant asserts that he was not informed in advance of the registration

audio made comments as part of his candidacy. He adds that as long as

this is a direct collection of personal data by the defendant, it should

to apply Article 13 of the GDPR.

58. The Complainant asserts that many other controllers find themselves in a situation

similar when applying GDPR for audio recordings. The complainant refers to this

with particular regard to

the practice of

the Litigation Chamber of

ODA which carries out

recordings of the hearing by effectively informing the persons concerned of the existence of

registration and its purpose.

59. The Complainant concludes that the Respondent should be dealt with harshly in this respect, in particular because

of the role of example which is his.

Respondent's Submissions

60. In its Reply and Reply submissions, the Respondent states with respect to the finding

aforementioned that8:

 

1. At the beginning of the entry into force of the GDPR, there was a lack of clarity as to the applicability

from standing orders to parliamentary activities.

The defendant refers in this respect to Article 2.2 a) of the GDPR which provides that the regulation

does not apply to "an activity which falls outside the scope of Union law". the

respondent states that the GDPR itself does not, however, contain any details regarding

the activities of the legislative power (this in contrast to the activities of the judiciary).

The Respondent asserts in this regard that this doubt was also shared by the Chambers

laws of other Member States. He refers in this respect to the Finnish legislator, who indicated

in the law implementing the GDPR that parliamentary activities were excluded from the

material scope of the GDPR.

The defendant further indicates that the imprecision described above led to the sending of a

preliminary question to the Court of Justice (Land Hessen), following which the Court stated that

parliamentary activities also fell within the material scope of the GDPR.

The defendant draws attention to the fact that the imprecision described above caused a

delay in the adoption of certain documents, therefore the privacy statement relating to

7 Exhibit 9 to the complainant's file.

8 Respondent's Reply Submissions, p. 14-19.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 18/33

appointments. He declares that the aforementioned privacy statement has been published on his

website on July 9, 2019 and acknowledges that it was not yet available at the time of

the sending of invitations to the audition nor at the time when the audio recordings of the audition

aforesaid have been carried out.;

 

With regard to the period after July 9, 2019 (publication of the declaration of

confidentiality), the Respondent argues the following:

 

2.

Article 13 does not require a separate list of each of the different forms of

processing (such as the storage, transfer, consultation, processing, etc. of

data, as well as the making of audio recordings which constitute a form of

treatment).

 

3.

it did inform the complainant of the purposes and legal basis of the processing activity by

question (namely the making of an audio recording). The Respondent reiterates in this regard that

the making of the audio recordings aims to be able to make the appointments and

presentations in a correct, qualitative and integrated manner.

 

He declares that for this purpose of nomination and presentations, a declaration of

separate confidentiality was adopted and published on the Respondent's website9. He is pointing out that

this specific privacy statement therefore applies to the processing activity of

audio recordings and describes the processing purpose as follows:

 

"These personal data are processed in particular for the purposes

following: (...) exercise the constitutional, legal and regulatory powers in

matters of designation, appointment, etc."

 

61. The Respondent states that this statement also already contained the particulars required by

GDPR Article 13, such as the legal bases for processing, which are described as follows:

"Compliance with regulatory obligations (in particular the Rules of Y)" or the legal basis of

the legal obligation according to article 6.1 (c) of the GDPR and "exercise of powers

constitutional, legal and regulatory provisions in matters of designation, appointment, etc.", or the

legal basis for the performance of a task in the public interest in accordance with Article 6.1 (e) of the

GDPR.

62. Respondent further argues that Article 13 of the GDPR does not require disclosure of

categories of personal data to the data subject. He emphasizes that it is beautiful

9 Exhibit 2 of the defendant's set of exhibits.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 19/33

and although required under Article 14 of the GDPR, where the personal data is not

not obtained directly from the person concerned and that the latter therefore did not

knowledge of the personal data that are processed about him (directives in

transparency within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, "Article 29" Working Party).

"This information is required in an article 14 scenario because the character data

personal are not obtained from the data subject who is therefore not

sufficiently aware of the categories of personal data that the controller

treatment has obtained." (p. 37)

63. The Respondent indicates that in this case the data was collected from the person

concerned itself, using a microphone (i.e. a data collection device), which

implies that Article 13 of the GDPR would apply and not Article 14 of the GDPR:

"(...) Article 13 applies to the scenario where the data is collected from the person

concerned.

That

understand

them

data

at

temper

personal

:

  

• that a data subject deliberately provides to a controller (e.g. by

completing an online form); Where

• which are collected by a data controller from a data subject through

to a record (e.g. using automated data collection devices or

data collection software such as cameras, network equipment, wifi tracking,

RFID (identification using radio waves) or other types of sensors).”

64. Respondent submits that neither Article 13 nor Article 14 of the GDPR further specifies the degree of

specificity in which the mandatory information elements must be communicated. He

declares that it therefore seems sufficient to provide information on the actual purpose (i.e. the realization

appointments and presentations by Y), without having to communicate specifically in this

context all the "sub-purposes" (such as guaranteeing the quality and integrity of the

procedure for arriving at these nominations and presentations).

65. Respondent clarifies that the confidentiality statement relating to appointments and appointments

presentations by Y describes the categories of personal data processed as follows:

"For the purpose of processing the application, the categories of personal data processed

by Y and the General Secretariat include the following:

- Identification data (for example, surname, first name, quality, activity carried out);

- Contact data (e.g. address, e-mail address, telephone number);

- The data transmitted in your application and during a possible hearing;

- Data transmitted by third parties (SELOR,

institutions organizing exams

languages, etc.) in the processing of the application."

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 20/33

66. The Respondent adds to this that the candidates communicate themselves, among other things, their

curriculum vitae, their identification data and their contact details and that the latter

also communicate the personal data themselves during a

possible hearing during the appointment procedure. The defendant considers that

this also includes personal data processed in the context of registrations

sound.

67. Finally, the Respondent states that it is ready to adapt its current privacy statement as well as

invitations to auditions. He attaches an amended privacy statement and clarifies that the

aforementioned statement is now available on its website.

Assessment by the Litigation Chamber

 

68. Pursuant to Article 5.1, a) of the GDPR, personal data must be "processed

in a lawful, fair and transparent manner with regard to the data subject ("lawfulness, fairness,

transparency")".

69. Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR contain the information to be provided to data subjects at

about the processing of personal data.

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 21/33

70. The Article 29 Working Party Transparency Guidelines10 specify in this regard

regard :

"Articles 13 and 14 set out the information to be provided to data subjects upon

beginning phase of the treatment cycle. Article 13 applies to the case

in which the data is collected from the data subject. This includes the

personal data:

 

• that a data subject knowingly provides to a data controller (for example

example when filling out an online form); Where

• that a data controller collects from a data subject by

observation (e.g. using automatic data capture devices

or data capture software such as cameras, network equipment,

a Wi-Fi tracking system, RFID or other types of sensors).

71. Given that in this case the personal data was collected via

an automatic data capture device (i.e. audio recordings using a

recorder), Article 13 of the GDPR applies to the disputed processing.

72. Articles 13.1 and 13.2 of the GDPR provide the following:

"When personal data relating to a data subject is collected

with this person, the data controller provides him, at the time when the data in question

question are obtained, all of the following information:

a) the identity and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the representative

the controller;

b) where applicable, the contact details of the data protection officer;

c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data are intended as well as

the legal basis for the processing;

d) where the processing is based on Article 6(1)(f), the legitimate interests

sued by the controller or by a third party;

e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if they

exist; and

f) where applicable, the fact that the data controller intends to carry out a transfer of

personal data to a third country or to an international organisation, and

the existence or absence of an adequacy decision issued by the Commission or, in the case

transfers referred to in Article 46 or 47, or in the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), the

reference to the appropriate or adapted safeguards and the means of obtaining a copy or

where they were made available.

10 Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, Guidelines on Transparency within the meaning of Regulation (EU)
2016/679, 11 April 2018, p. 17, item 26.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 22/33

2. In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 1, the controller shall provide the

data subject, at the time the personal data is obtained, the

following additional information that is necessary to ensure processing

fair and transparent:

a) the retention period of the personal data or, where this is not possible,

the criteria used to determine this duration;

b) the existence of the right to request from the controller access to the data to

personal character, rectification or erasure thereof, or limitation of processing

relating to the data subject, or the right to object to processing and the right to portability

Datas ;

c) where the processing is based on point (a) of Article 6(1) or on Article 9,

paragraph 2(a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without

undermine the lawfulness of processing based on consent made before the withdrawal of

this one ;

d) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;

(e) information on whether the requirement to provide personal data

personnel is of a regulatory or contractual nature or if it conditions the conclusion of a

contract and whether the data subject is obliged to provide the personal data, as well as

only on the possible consequences of the non-provision of these data;

f) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22,

paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, useful information concerning the logic

underlying data, as well as the significance and anticipated consequences of such processing for the

concerned person".

73. The Litigation Division recognizes that, as raised by the defendant, the provisions

above do not determine the degree of specificity in which the information elements

mandatory must be communicated to the persons concerned and that these provisions do not

nor require that each of the forms of processing and/or categories of data to be

personal character be mentioned.

74. It should however be emphasized that in accordance with the principle of transparency set out in Article

5.1 a) of the GDPR, read together with recital 60 of the GDPR, a data subject must

to be informed of the existence of the processing operation and its purposes no later than the time

obtaining personal data.11 Recital 39 further clarifies

general that "The fact that personal data relating to natural persons

are collected, used, accessed or otherwise processed and the extent to which these

11 Recital 60 GDPR.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 23/33

data is or will be processed should be transparent to natural persons

concerned. (...)”.

75. It is established on the basis of the documents in the file that this was not the case in the present case. It comes out in

effect that the plaintiff was not informed either via the defendant's privacy statement or via

the invitation to the audition or via any other means by the very fact that the auditions concerned

would be recorded. This is also acknowledged by the Respondent in its

conclusions in reply and in reply, in which he declares that - in particular given the vagueness

which initially reigned concerning the applicability of the GDPR to the legislative chambers - the

privacy statement relating to the processing of personal data in the

framework of the appointment procedures was not published on the Respondent's website until 9 July

2019. Therefore, the privacy statement was not yet available at the time of

the sending of the invitation to the hearing of January 14, 2019 to the complainant, nor at the time of carrying out the

audio recordings of the hearings concerned (January 30 and February 13, 2019).12 The invitation

didn't include any information about it either.

76. Consequently, the Litigation Chamber considers that a violation of Article 5.1 a) of the GDPR

(principle of transparency) has been committed. The Litigation Chamber formulates a reprimand for

the aforementioned violation.

77. The Litigation Chamber finds on the basis of the documents transmitted by the defendant that the

privacy statement as well as the invitation to the hearings have meanwhile been amended and

that they now clearly mention the audio recording.13 The Litigation Chamber

draws attention to the fact that data subjects should also be informed of the

possibility to object to the processing in question by means of audio recordings (see Art. 21

GDPR).

 

II.5. The right of access (Art. 12 and 15 GDPR)

Findings of the Inspection Service

78. In its investigation report, the Inspection Service notes that in response to the request for access

of the plaintiff of March 29, 2019, the defendant did not provide him with all the information

listed in Article 15.1 of the GDPR within the period of one month prescribed by Article 12.3 of the GDPR.

 

79. More specifically, the Inspection Service finds that the Respondent did not inform the Complainant

time regarding the (categories of) recipients to whom the personal data has been

12 Respondent's Reply Submissions, p. 15.
13 Exhibits 3 and 4 of the Respondent's Reply Brief.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 24/33

provided (Art. 15.1 c) GDPR and the retention period of personal data or

the criteria for determining this duration (Art. 15.1 d) of the GDPR).

80. However, the Inspection Service specifies in its investigation report that the defendant

nevertheless transmitted the information concerning the recipients of the personal data

personnel to the complainant after his second request of 7 May 2019.

81. Based on the foregoing, the Inspection Service finds, in summary, that the Respondent violated

articles 15.1 c) and d) of the GDPR but that the latter has rectified the first violation before the

transmission of the inspection report to the Litigation Chamber by the Inspection Service.

Complaint and conclusions of the complainant

82. In his complaint and rejoinder submissions, the Complainant states that the information referred to in

Article 15.1 of the GDPR were not fully provided to it by the Respondent in response to its

request access. The complainant refers in this respect to the deliberations of the Justice Commission

as well as to the report to the Commission from the Presidents about which the complainant states that he is

unlikely that there is no written record of it.

Respondent's Submissions

83. In its submissions, the Respondent indicates that in light of the wording of Article 15.1 of the

GDPR, it is up to the complainant himself to specify the exact purpose of his request for access.

Defendant states that it can be inferred from Plaintiff's original request (dated March 29

2019) that the exercise of his right of access aims to obtain the personal data processed

about him in the appointment process. The defendant argues that, by

therefore, it can in no way be considered unreasonable to have only

responded to this specific request in its first response and not to have immediately

communicated the other information relating to the characteristics of the processing, set out in

GDPR Article 15.1 (such as retention periods). The Respondent therefore declares -

through its response of April 25, 2019 - having responded within the legal deadline of one month (as

as set out in Article 12.3 of the GDPR) to the complainant's request for access.

Assessment by the Litigation Chamber

84. In accordance with Article 15.1 of the GDPR, the data subject has the right to obtain confirmation

that personal data relating to him are or are not being processed and, when

are, access to said personal data as well as the following information:

has)

the purposes of the processing;

b) The categories of personal data concerned;

vs)

the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been

been or will be communicated, in particular recipients who are established in third countries

or international organizations;

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 25/33

d)

where possible, the envisaged retention period of the personal data

or, where this is not possible, the criteria used to determine this duration;

e)

the existence of the right to request from the controller the rectification or erasure

of personal data, or a limitation of the processing of personal data

relating to the data subject, or the right to object to such processing;

f)

the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority;

g)

when the personal data is not collected from the person

concerned, any information available as to their source;

h)

the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to in Article 22,

paragraphs 1 and 4, and, at least in such cases, useful information concerning the logic

underlying data, as well as the significance and anticipated consequences of such processing for the

concerned person.

85. In accordance with Article 12.3 of the GDPR, the controller "provides to the person

concerned information on the measures taken following a request made in

application of Articles 15 to 22, as soon as possible and in any event within one

months from the receipt of the request". The aforementioned provision specifies that, if necessary, this

deadline can be extended by 2 months, taking into account the complexity and the number of requests.

86. According to the documents in the file, the Complainant sent an access request to the Respondent by e-mail

dated March 29, 2019. The complainant formulated the subject of his request for access as follows:

“As part of my candidacy for a position as a member of the Management Committee of

the Data Protection Authority, my personal data has been processed by

the services of Y as well as by Selor.

 

By this e-mail, I wish to exercise my right of access and request that, as prescribed

by Article 15 of the GDPR, you provide me with a copy of the data concerning me which has been

and are processed by y. My request relates to all the data, but above all aims to

take note of the mentions and therefore of the data concerning my person, in the

report that Mrs Onkelinx sent on behalf of the Justice Commission to the Conference of

Chairman on March 20, 2019, as reflected in the full minutes of the Y meeting of the 28

March 2019. For your information, know that I only request access to the data me

concerning, so that no further data has to be provided to me. (...)”

87. By email of April 25, 2019 - i.e. within one month - the defendant responded to the request

the aforementioned access of the complainant as follows:

 

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 26/33

"Following your request of March 29 to obtain a copy of the personal data

personal information about you that has been processed by Y in the context of your application

with the Data Protection Authority, on the basis of article 15.3 of the

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 relating

to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data

personal character and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive

95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (hereinafter GDPR), you

Attached is a copy:

 

1. your initial application;

 

2. personal data processed by the General Secretariat, namely:

 

- the documents that were necessary to process your applications. They are

limited to personal data concerning you. In accordance with your

request and in Article 15.4 of the GDPR, the personal data concerning the

other candidates were removed;

- the e-mails exchanged with the General Secretariat;

 

3. personal data processed by the commission department in the context of

framework of the hearing before the Justice Committee, namely:

 

- the e-mails exchanged with the commission department;

- the audio recordings of your hearing.

 

Due to the size of the files, the aforementioned documents and records will be

sent in multiple emails.

 

In addition, personal data concerning you is processed within the

following printed materials:

 

- Appointment of members of the Data Protection Authority, DOC 54 3676/001:

link;

- Verbatim Report, Plenary Session, Thursday 28-03-2019, Evening, CRIV 54 PLEN 278:

link;

- Summary record, Plenary session, Thursday 28-03-2019, Evening, CRIV 54 PLEN 278:

link;

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 27/33

- Verbatim Report, Plenary Session, Thursday 04-04-2019, Evening, CRIV 54 PLEN 281:

link;

- Summary record, Plenary session, Thursday 04-04-2019, Evening, CRIV 54 PLEN 281:

link.

 

Mrs Onkelinx's report to the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019 was

delivered orally. The Conference meets behind closed doors. Conference meetings

are not recorded on tape. In the minutes of the March 20 Conference

2019, no personal data concerning you is processed.

 

I draw your attention to the fact that you can file a complaint with

the Data Protection Authority (rue de la Presse 35 in 1000 Brussels, Tel. +32 (0)2

274 48 00, e-mail contact@apd-gba.be) and that you have the right to lodge an appeal

jurisdictional."

88. By e-mail of May 7, 2019, the Complainant replied to the Respondent that he considered that he had received no response

completes its request for access and declares, among other things, the following:

"(...) At no time was I given all the information as required by the

Articles 13 and/or 14 of the GDPR. This particularly applies to the recipients of the information.

This immediately leads me to an additional request, which is to tell me who the

recipients of personal data concerning me. This concerns in particular the

internal recipients, i.e. recipients within Y, but also potential recipients

external parties, such as, where appropriate, political parties. This information must moreover

principle also be provided as part of a response to a request for access, such as the

provides for Article 15 of the GDPR, which was not the case here. (…)"

89. On May 27, 2019, the Respondent replies to the aforementioned email from the Complainant and communicates to him the

(categories of) beneficiaries.

 

90. The Litigation Division draws attention to the fact that the right of access set out in Article 15 of the

GDPR has three "layers" of information, namely:

1.

confirmation from the controller that personal data

concerning the data subject are (or are not) processed;

details relating to the processing, as listed in Article 15.1 of the GDPR; and

access to the personal data concerned.14

2.

3.

14ZANFIR-FORTUNA, G., “Article 15. Right of access by the data subject” in KUNER, C., BYGRAVE, L.A. and DOCKSEY, C., The EU
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). A commentary, Oxford University Press, Oxford, p. 464; EDPB, Guidelines 01/2022
on data subject rights - right of access, 18 January 2022 (public consultation).

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 28/33

91. When receiving a general access request from a data subject, the data controller

processing must provide each of the above layers of information15 and must communicate

- within the time limits determined for this purpose in Article 12.3 of the GDPR - all the information listed

in Article 15.1 of the GDPR to the data subject.

92. It emerges from the wording of the complainant's request (see above) that in the present case, it is a

general request, but that it concerns in particular the report presented to the Conference of

Chairpersons on behalf of the Justice Commission as part of the appointment procedure. In his

submissions in reply, the complainant specified that the part of his complaint concerning the right of access

is divided into two sub-complaints.

93. First of all, the complainant points out that all the personal data processed did not

not been communicated. Specifically, he finds it unlikely that there is no written record of the

aforementioned report presented to the Conference of Presidents and wishes to have access to its

personal data processed in this context.

94. With regard to this point, the Inspection Service notes in its investigation report

that no personal data of candidates - and therefore of the complainant - appears

in the extract from the Conference of Presidents of March 20, 2019 with the oral report by the

rapporteur of the hearings with the candidates in the Justice Committee and that consequently, no

access shall only be granted by the Respondent to the aforementioned record in connection with

GDPR Article 15.16

95. On the basis of the analysis of the documents in the file, the Litigation Division agrees with the point of view

aforementioned of the Inspection Service.

96. Second, the Complainant states in its Complaint and Reply Submissions that the

defendant did not provide him with all the information listed in Article 15.1 of the GDPR. The service

of Inspection notes in this regard in its investigation report that the defendant did not in fact provide

no information to the complainant - within one month of his request - concerning the

(categories of) recipients (Art. 15.1 c) of the GDPR) and the retention periods (Art. 15.1 d) of the

GDPR).17

97. The Respondent argues in this regard in its submissions in response that it is incumbent on the person

concerned to specify the exact purpose of his request for access and declares that the (initial) request of the

complainant did not make it possible to deduce that it concerned all the items of information included in

GDPR article 15.1.

 

15 Ibid.
16 Cf. investigation report of the Inspection Service, p. 24.
17 See investigation report of the Inspection Service, p. 25-27.

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 29/33

98. The Litigation Division nevertheless points out that, in accordance with recital 63 in fine of the

GDPR, the controller may, where appropriate, for example if processing a large amount

of data relating to the person concerned, ask the latter to specify, before providing

the information, on which data or which processing operations his request concerns18. In

In this case, however, the Respondent did not request such additional clarification.

99. In accordance with Article 12.2 of the GDPR, the controller must facilitate the exercise of

rights of the data subject and therefore cannot be based on the wording of the request of the

complainant for not responding appropriately, timely or fully.

100. This is also confirmed by the EDPB in its recent guidelines on the rights of

data subjects (and in particular the right of access), in which it emphasizes the application

broad of Article 15.1 of the GDPR and states: “In addition to the access to the personal data

themselves, the controller has to provide information on the processing and on data subject rights

according to Art. 15(1) (a) to (h) and 15(2) GDPR”19 and “Unless explicitly requested otherwise by the

data subject, a request to exercise the right of access shall be understood in general terms,

encompassing all personal data concerning the data subject”.20

101. The EDPB stresses in this respect that the majority of the information items listed in Article 15.1 a)

to h) inclusive of the GDPR must indeed already be included in general form in the declaration of

confidentiality and/or record of processing activities of the data controller, which

allows in principle to use (reuse) this information and to supplement it and/or

specify in response to the concrete request of the data subject.21 The EDPB refers between

others to the categories of recipients as an example of an item of information listed in Article

15.1 which should, where appropriate, be specified for any individual access request.

102. The Litigation Division finds on the basis of the foregoing that in this case, the defendant has

not fully satisfied with the aforementioned obligation within the period of one month prescribed by Article

12.3 GDPR with regard to (categories of) recipients (Art. 15.1 c) GDPR) and deadlines

(Art. 15.1 d) GDPR) and has therefore committed a violation of Article 12

 

18Recital 63 of the GDPR (last sentence): "When the controller processes a large amount of personal data
relating to the person concerned, he should be able to ask the latter to specify, before providing him with the information, on
which data or which processing operations his request relates to".
19 EDPB, Guidelines 01/2022 on data subject rights - right of access, 18 January 2022 (public consultation), n° 110 (p.35).
Free translation: In addition to access to the personal data themselves, the controller must also
provide information on the processing and the rights of the data subject, in accordance with Article 15, paragraph
1 lit. a) to h) inclusive, and Art. 15 para. 2 GDPR.
20 Ibid., No. 35 (p. 15). Free translation: Unless explicitly requested otherwise by the data subject, a request to exercise
right of access should be understood in general terms and encompasses all personal data relating to the
concerned person.
The Litigation Chamber specifies however that the publication of the aforementioned guidelines (for public consultation)
is subsequent to the hearing in this case.
21 Ibid., n° 110 e.s. (pp. 35-36).

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 30/33

juncto article 15.1 of the GDPR. The Litigation Chamber decides to impose a reprimand for the

aforementioned violation.

103. The Litigation Division takes note of the fact that in its submissions in reply, the plaintiff

requests that an additional investigation be requested from the Inspection Service and formulates to this end

several questions :

"For an objective treatment of this complaint, it was appropriate to verify in particular the following:

- which members of the Justice Committee were present at the hearing of 13 February 2019

- whether the Justice Committee deliberated on the hearing of February 13, 2019

- whether the hearing of February 13, 2019 was the subject of a report and if so, what

data this report contains

- whether data relating to the hearing of February 13, 2019 has been provided to all members of Y

- if all the members of Y have been able to read all the data relating to ...

- if during the vote in plenary session, account was taken of the language requirements specific to the

functions

- if the ballot paper given to the members of Y included other

data as the job description of the candidates

- the date on which Y's privacy statement regarding presentations and

appointments has been published on the website

 

In these conclusions, the complainant requests that the Litigation Chamber instruct the

Inspection Service to further consider the above points. It is therefore not possible to set

this question earlier."

104. The Litigation Division points out that a response has already been given to several of these questions

of the complainant22 and considers that the other questions concern rather the methods of organization of

the appointment procedure and not the (non-)compliance of the processing of personal data

related personnel with the provisions of the GDPR (see also above).

105. With regard to the complainant's above claim, it should also be pointed out

that in accordance with Article 94 of the LCA, it is solely up to the Litigation Chamber to

judge whether or not to request a further investigation and that the LCA does not provide

no possibility for the parties to make such a request. In addition, the Chamber

Litigation draws attention to the fact that the time limit provided for this purpose in Article 96 of the LCA is

elapsed. The Litigation Chamber therefore does not accede to the aforementioned request of the

complainant.

 

 

22 With regard to questions 3, 4, 5 and 8; see respectively Title II.5 (a.o. Nos. 90 and 95) and Title II.4 (a.o. Nos. 61, 68
and 76) of this decision.

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 31/33

II.6. Register of processing activities (Article 30 of the GDPR)

Findings of the Inspection Service

106. In its investigation report, the Inspection Service notes that the register of the activities of

defendant's treatment is incomplete, since it does not mention the relative treatment activity

to audio recordings.23

Respondent's Submissions

107. In its Reply and Reply submissions, the Respondent states with respect to the

above finding of the Inspection Service that Article 30.1 of the GDPR does not impose any

concrete obligation concerning the level of detail of the descriptions, nor concerning the level of

detail for the mention of the different processing activities.

108. The defendant points out that it had already informed the Inspection Service, through its delegate at the

data protection in its letter of April 9, 2021, that the making of recordings

audio had not been listed as a separate processing activity in the register but that

the defendant had indicated in his register the general purpose "appointments and presentations for

public institutions". The defendant reiterates that the specific processing activity of the realization

audio recordings also falls under this purpose. The defendant states that one cannot

conclude to a violation, since Article 30 of the GDPR and the available guidelines do not

provide for no specific level of detail.

109. The Respondent adds that following the inspection investigation, he took the initiative to resume the

making audio recordings as a separate processing activity in its registry.

The defendant adds the adapted version of the register of processing activities and integrates a

excerpted in its conclusions.

Assessment by the Litigation Chamber

110. Pursuant to Article 30.1 of the GDPR, each data controller - or where applicable his

representative - keeps a record of the processing activities carried out under his responsibility. This

register must include the following information:

"(a) the name and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the controller

spouse of the processing, the representative of the controller and the data protection officer

Datas ;

b) the purposes of the processing;

c) a description of the categories of data subjects and the categories of data to be

personal character;

23 Investigation report of the Inspection Service, p. 28.

 

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 32/33

d) the categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be

communicated, including recipients in third countries or international organizations

;

e) where applicable, transfers of personal data to a third country or to a

international organisation, including the identification of this third country or this organization

international community and, in the case of transfers referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), the

documents attesting to the existence of appropriate safeguards;

f) as far as possible, the deadlines provided for the erasure of the different categories of

data ;

g) as far as possible, a general description of the technical security measures and

organizational arrangements referred to in Article 32(1)."

111. Article 30.3 of the GDPR specifies that the aforementioned register must be in a form

written, including electronic form.

112. The Litigation Chamber finds, on the basis of the documents in the file, that at the time of the complaint

of the complainant, the record of processing activities did not contain any specific fields

mentioning the processing activity relating to audio recordings of candidates' auditions

in appointment procedures.

113. The Litigation Division recognizes, as emphasized by the defendant, that the GDPR does not contain

no specific requirement concerning the level of detail of the information required. It suits

however, to point out that in accordance with Article 30.1 c) of the GDPR, the register of the person responsible for the

processing must include the categories of personal data. The realization

of audio recordings must therefore be mentioned in the register as

separate category of personal data.

114. The Litigation Chamber emphasizes that the register of processing activities constitutes a

essential instrument within the framework of the responsibility of data controllers, which occupies

a central place in the GDPR.

115. For the reasons set out above, the Litigation Chamber considers that the register of activities

of the defendant's treatment was incomplete at the time of the treatment and that a breach of Article

30.1 of the GDPR has therefore been committed. The Litigation Chamber formulates a reprimand for the

aforementioned violation.

116. The Litigation Division notes, however, that the defendant has in the meantime adapted its register

processing activities and took over the audio recordings there as a separate processing.

 

Publication of the decision

Decision on the merits 44/2022 - 33/33

117. Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber

Litigation, this decision is published on the website of the Authority for the protection of

data. However, it is not necessary for this purpose that the identification data of the parties

are communicated directly.

 

FOR THESE REASONS,

the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation:

-

pursuant to Article 58.2 b) of the GDPR and Article 100, §1, 5° of the LCA, to impose on the defendant

a reprimand for violation of Articles 5.1 a), 12juncto 15.1 GDPR and 30 GDPR.

 

Pursuant to Article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed to the

Court of Markets within thirty days of its notification, with the Authority of

data protection as defendant.

 

 

(Sr.) Dirk Van der Kelen

President of the Litigation Chamber f.f.

