1/14

 File No.: PS/00348/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter the claimant) on 06/24/2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directs against the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1 (in
forward the claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:
community of owners to which it belongs has made available to the neighbors
that make up a space in the portal https://konvoko.com where they are stored
community documents including the minutes of the owners' meetings; East
portal has a mobile application for access from smartphones to
documents made available to the community in addition to being able to access via
Web.

According to the complainant, once the application is downloaded, it can be freely accessed and
without any type of password or restriction to the records of said community, being able to
view documents in which the personal data of the user would be accessible
interested and provides links that lead to community documents without
no restriction:

It also indicates that the neighbors had not been informed of the existence of a file
registration of treatment activities by the community.
Likewise, it states that the viewing of the cameras of the security system has been carried out.
video surveillance by unauthorized person. On the other hand, he adds that there is no
any document approved by the board of owners where the person is picked up
authorized to access the cameras.

The claimant provides the Certificate of Presence in which the notary attests that the
access various documents relating to the community of owners claimed to
through the mobile application without any restriction, being among these, minutes
of meetings of owners where they are reflected, among other matters, personal data and
defaulting situations of the owners. Attached to this notarial deed is a printout of
a minute of a meeting of owners obtained without any restriction.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), with reference number E/05334/2020, transfer of di-
this claim to the claimant on 07/31/2020, so that it could proceed with its analysis and information.
report to this Agency within a month, of the actions carried out in order to
comply with the requirements set forth in the data protection regulations. was reiterated
the request on 08/13/2020.

THIRD: On 12/16/2020, the Director of the AEPD agrees to the admission to
limit of the claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/14

FOURTH: In view of the facts denounced in the claim and the documents
data provided by the claimant, the Subdirectorate General for Data Inspection pro-
yielded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the clarification
of the facts in question, by virtue of the powers of investigation granted to the
control authorities in article 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (Regulation
General Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions
ed in Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD).

Regarding the publication of data on the KONVOKO TECHNOLOGY platform,
SL (hereinafter Konvoko):

Regarding the portal https://konvoko.com where various documents are stored
of the community, it is verified that, when installing the application indicated in the claim,
mation, you can no longer access the documents of the community of owners
for the simple fact of performing a search with the term (...) as stated in the
notarial act provided by the claimant. It is concluded, therefore, that this aspect has
been remedied.

However, the acting inspector verifies, on 02/03/2020, that despite what
pointed out by Konvoko in the reply to the transfer of the claim on security
information published on this platform, it is still possible to access via
web to the documents indicated in the claim, among which are records with
personal data and situations of non-payment, of public access and without restriction.

Requested information on these events from the company Konvoko, dated
02/17/2021, this Agency receives a response to the request stating that
through the possibility offered by the system of "sharing" a document, it was created
a free access link bypassing the established measures, generating
a security problem that they had not detected. They add that as soon as they received
the requirement of this Agency dated 02/04/2021 proceeded to correct
this problem being solved. It is verified that it is no longer possible to access the
documents indicated in the claim.

Likewise, they present to this Agency an Impact Assessment report on this transaction.
concluding that it can be carried out without significant risks, since none
None of the detected threats has a "high" or "very high" inherent risk.

Regarding the visualization of the images captured by the video surveillance system
Inc:
On the incorrect use of the images recorded by the video surveillance system
community, the claimant does not provide any evidence, but assumptions
about an illicit use of the system based on the statements made by the president
representative of the community in a neighborhood meeting on certain behavior of the
clamoring that they could well have been observed in any other way. In no mo-
moment is cited in these minutes, that this behavior has been observed through the
visualization of images recorded by the video surveillance system or that exist
these images.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/14

However, a request was made to the president of the community of owners
Regarding the statement of the claimant that it is not included in any document
the person authorized to view the images, dated 04/24/2021,
receives in this Agency a written reply stating that the video system
surveillance was approved in various meetings of owners as recorded in the minutes
with dates of March 2012, where the motivation for the installation is collected, and July
2012, where the installation of video surveillance cameras was unanimously approved.
lancia in section 6.2.e. They add that there is a tacit agreement that it be the boards
These directives that are occupying the representation of the community of owners
who exercises the due responsibilities regarding the visualization of the cameras
of video surveillance. Recording equipment and display monitor are located
in the telecommunications room inside a locked metal cabinet,
this being guarded by the board. They point out that the images are not displayed by
no third party.

And they attach, among others, the following relevant documents:

- Minutes dated 03/15/2012 and 07/12/2012
- Photographs of the informative posters of the video-monitored area where the location is indicated.
where to exercise the rights of the interested party.
- Photographic report of camera location and viewing scope. Among
them, photograph of the camera located in the telecommunications room in which
Find the cabinet containing the recording equipment and the viewing monitor.
- Screenshot of the recording management application where it can be seen
They have a life cycle of one month.

FIFTH: On 08/18/2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged infraction
tion of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and
83.4.a) of the aforementioned regulation.

SIXTH: Having notified the aforementioned initiation agreement, on 09/20/2021 the respondent presented
brief of allegations in which, in summary, it stated the following: its disagreement
with the opening of the agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure considering
do which is null and void; that documentation has not been transferred to
in order to exercise their right to defense and put forward the arguments and evidence they could
counteract the statements made by the complainant, leaving the complaining party
stay in a defenseless situation; that the Konvoco company is responsible for the
processing of the user's personal data; that in any way can be done
liable to the respondent for having to make decisions aimed at implementing
effectively the appropriate technical and organizational measures to guarantee a ni-
level of security appropriate to the risk; which is to the Konvoco company that you have to
direct the procedure for being responsible for the facts.

SEVENTH: On 09/28/2021, the opening of a practice period of
tests, remembering the following:

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the claimant-
te and its documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the Services of
Inspection that are part of file E/10201/2020.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/14

Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the initial agreement presented
ted by the claimed party and the documentation that accompanies them.

EIGHTH: On 01/24/2022 the requested Resolution Proposal was notified in the
sense that the Director of the AEPD sanctioned the defendant for infraction
of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the
GDPR, with warning.
After the period established by the claimant, at the time of this Resolution,
He had not submitted any brief of allegation.

NINTH: Of the actions carried out, the following have been accredited

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST. On 06/24/2020 it has entry into the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
written documents of the claimant stating that the community of owners to which he per-
has made available to the neighbors who form it a space in the portal
https://konvoko.com where community documents are stored including
minutes of the meetings of owners; This portal has a mobile application for
access from smartphones to community documents as well as being able to
access via web; The claimant points out that once the application has been downloaded,
access freely and without any type of password or restriction to the minutes of di-
cha community being able to visualize documents in which the
personal data of the interested party and provides links that lead to documents of the
community without any restriction:

It also indicates that the neighbors had not been informed of the existence of a file
registration of treatment activities by the community.

SECOND. Proof provided Diligence of the notary of Las Palmas dated
05/08/2020 in which it is stated, among others, that "The same day of the request, it is
that is to say, on the seven eighth of May of two thousand and nineteen, being twelve hours forty and
five minutes, and with the presence of the applicant in my office on the street ***DIREC-
CIÒN.1, I download the free application “KONKOVO” from my mobile phone.

Once downloaded, I write the word (...) in the search engine and I get several files
in pdf format.
I access the first one, which I print and incorporate into this matrix.
I certify that he has not asked me at any time for passwords or keys to access
der, that is to say, that access is completely open and free”.

THIRD. A copy of the Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting is included in the Diligence
of the Community of owners held on 04/25/2019, which includes data on the
personal character of owners of the community.

FOURTH. A copy of the Minutes of the Ordinary Meeting of the Community of
owners held on 03/14/2016 in which point 9 indicates that "It is reported that the
President of the Community hires in the month of October 2015, for an amount
annual €96 igic included, the Konvoco mobile application…”.; communication in-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/14

posted on the Community Notice Board informing that access to the
neighborhood information will be made through the Konvoco application and through
password, as well as the links:

***URL.1
***URL.2
***URL.3
***URL.4
that lead us to community documents, minutes, agreements and documents of the
Community containing personal data without restriction.

FIFTH. Konvoko in writing of 08/20/2020 has stated that "We believe that
there is no incident that motivates this claim since to access the information
mation of any community of owners that publishes or any other entity of
private profile in Konvoko previously you have to know the password provided and be
validated the request by the person in charge of the community...

We do not know what the channel of communication between the Community and the neighbors has been.
us to send you said password since the current meeting tells us
who have been in charge of it for a short time and it was the old board who registered the
10-13-2015 and launched the app with the neighbors…”

SIXTH. The Inspector's Diligence is recorded stating "... that on February 3, 2021
impression of the pages of the website https://www.konvoko.com of the do-
Claimed Documents:

***URL.1
***URL.2
corresponding to two minutes of the owners' meeting in which personal data is revealed
personal and non-payment situations of the owners”.

The acting inspector in his Report has indicated that: “However, the acting inspector
tuante verifies, dated 02/03/2021 despite what was indicated by KONVOKO in the
response to the transfer of the claim on the security of public information
each on this platform, which can still be accessed via the web to the documents
indicated in the claim, among which are records with personal data and
situations of non-payment, public access and without restriction”.

SEVENTH. Konvoko in writing of 02/17/2021 states that “The same night of the game-
You see February 4, date of receipt of the request in which the AEPD reported
of the incident, access through shared links was resolved and blocked.
two by users with access to senders in private, although only for devices that
They did NOT have the Konvoko app installed.

- The next day, February 5, access was also blocked for the devices
sites that DO have the app installed.

- On Monday the 8th it was detected that, although access to the texts was already restricted, all-
via it was possible to access an attached pdf, leaving this resolved and inaccessible the same
on the 8th of February”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/14

EIGHTH. The acting inspector in Diligence of 03/09/2021 has indicated that “in this
date printout of the results is obtained by directing the browser to the links indicated
fallen on the claim. It is verified that the documentation of
the community of owners showing as a result the main page of the platform-
form KONVOKO”. Concluding in its Report that “therefore, this aspect has been
do remedied”.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each autho-
authority of control and according to what is established in articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
Data processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
established in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulatory provisions issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with
subsidiary character, by the general rules on administrative procedures
you.".

II

Prior to examining the merits of the matter, it is appropriate
analyze the exception alleged by the respondent that, if successful, would invalidate the
substantive or material considerations.

The respondent alleges that the procedure is null and void by virtue of
article 47.1 a) and g) of Law 39/2015 by not transferring the documentation
part of the file, especially the notarial certificate "Record of Presence of the
Notary”, in order to exercise their right to defense and put forward the arguments and evidence
that could counteract the statements made by the claimant, leaving him in
defenseless situation.

It should be noted that in accordance with article 67 of the LOPDGD, before
of the adoption of the agreement to initiate the procedure, and once the application has been admitted for processing.
claim, if any, the Spanish Agency for Data Protection may carry out
carry out preliminary investigation actions in order to achieve a better determination of the
the facts and circumstances that justify the processing of the procedure. And that
both the claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, the
documents obtained and generated by the Inspection Services that are part
of file E/10201/2020 have been incorporated into it through the practice of
the proof.

Article 67 of the LOPDGDD, Previous investigation actions, establishes

that:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/14

"1. Before the adoption of the agreement to initiate the procedure, and once
Once the claim is admitted for processing, if any, the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data may carry out preliminary investigation actions in order to achieve a
better determination of the facts and circumstances that justify the processing of the
process.

The Spanish Agency for Data Protection will act in any case when it is
requires the investigation of treatments that involve massive data traffic
personal.

2. The preliminary investigation actions will be subject to the provisions of the
Section 2 of Chapter I of Title VII of this organic law and may not have a
duration of more than twelve months from the date of the admission agreement to
procedure or the date of the agreement by which its initiation is decided when the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Agency acts on its own initiative or as a consequence of
the communication that would have been sent by the supervisory authority of another State
member of the European Union, in accordance with article 64.3 of this organic law”.

Therefore, the infraction imputed to the defendant in this
sanctioning procedure has not been carried out based on mere suspicions or indications,
but because of the evidence obtained that proves the claimed facts.

However, the respondent is informed that Law 39/2015, in its Title
IV, Of the provisions on the common administrative procedure, Chapter I,
Procedural guarantees, in its article 53.1.a) states that:

"1. In addition to the rest of the rights provided for in this Law, those interested in a

administrative procedure have the following rights:

a) To know, at any time, the status of the processing of the
procedures in which they have the status of interested parties; the sense of
corresponding administrative silence, in case the Administration does not
dictate or notify an express resolution within the term; the competent body for
instruction, if any, and resolution; and the procedural acts dictated. Likewise,
They will also have the right to access and obtain a copy of the documents
contained in the aforementioned procedures.

(...).

Article 58 of the RGPD, Powers, states:

III

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;

(…)

(…)”

In the present case, the exposed facts consisting of the fact that the community
of owners to which the claimed person belongs has made available to the neighbors
a platform for access from smartphones to community documents
ity, although access is free and without any type of password to them being able-
the personal data of the interested party will be displayed, constituting an infringement of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/14

data protection requirement, specifically the principle of confidentiality of data
themselves.

Article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must govern the treatment

of personal data and mentions among them that of “integrity and confidentiality”.

The cited article states that:
"1. The personal data will be:

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

(…)

(…)

IV

It should be noted that for the purpose of the data processing carried out by the
communities of owners in its management is to ensure compliance by the
owners of the obligations imposed by the LPH, as well as guarantee the
adequate exercise of the rights that correspond to the community members and the
third parties in the community.

The condition of data controller falls on the community of

owners.

The documentation in the file shows that the claimed,
violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, by enabling the
access via mobile application to community documents without restriction
some, among which are records with personal data and non-payment situations.

The claimed party considers that it was the claimant himself who has brought about

that your data reach third parties without authorization.

However, such an argument cannot be admitted and bears little resemblance to what
indicated in the fifth proven fact where the Diligence of the notary is extracted
of Las Palmas, dated 05/08/2020, in which it is stated that “On the same day of the
requirement, that is to say, on May 7, 2019, twelve o'clock being
hours forty-five minutes, and with the presence of the petitioner in my office in
the street ***ADDRESS.1, I download the free application from my mobile phone
“KONKOVO”.

Once downloaded, I write the word (...) in the search engine and I get several

files in PDF format.

I access the first one, which I print and incorporate into this matrix.

I certify that he has not asked me at any time for passwords or keys to

access, that is to say, that access is completely open and free”.

In other words, there was the possibility that the personal data of which they are
holders the owners were known by third parties outside the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/14

Community, through unhindered access to them as it is not necessary
password or security key, which is a violation of the duty of
confidentiality, contemplated in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD.

Establishing in article 5.1.f) of the aforementioned RGPD that: Personal data
will be (...) f) treated in such a way as to guarantee adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of measures
appropriate technical or organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

Duty of confidentiality or secrecy, which constitutes one of the manifestations
essentials of the fundamental right to protection of personal data (article 18.4
EC).

Duty of confidentiality or secrecy incumbent on everyone who intervenes
at any stage of the processing, an obligation that is complementary to the duty to
professional secrecy and that means that they cannot reveal or disclose their
content having the duty to keep them.

v

Article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, considers that the infringement of “the basic principles
costs for treatment, including the conditions for consent under the
articles 5, 6, 7 and 9” is punishable in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned
Article 83 of the aforementioned Regulation, "with administrative fines of €20,000,000 as
maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to 4% as
maximum of the overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year,
opting for the highest amount.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72 indicates:

“Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

(…)”

SAW

Second, it should be noted that the security of personal data

It is regulated in articles 32 of the RGPD.

Article 32 of the RGPD "Security of treatment", establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/14

physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and

permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;

c) the ability to restore availability and access to data

quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;

d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness

of the technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 73, for prescription purposes, qualifies

of “Infringements considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/14

treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679.
(…)”

The facts revealed in this claim materialize
in suppose the breach of the technical and organizational measures violating the
data confidentiality.

7th

The GDPR defines personal data security breaches as
“all those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.

From the documentation in the file, there are clear indications of
that the claimed party has violated article 32 of the RGPD, when an incident of
security since through the portal https://konvoko.com, where they are stored
various community documents, and the application that can be downloaded from the
Mobile allows access to these documents made available to neighbors. Nope
However, downloaded the application allows free access, without any kind of
password, being able to view the personal data as there are no security measures
adequate security to prevent indiscriminate access to the information of the
Community of owners.

It should be noted that the RGPD in the aforementioned provision does not establish a list of
the security measures that are applicable according to the data that is
object of treatment, but it establishes that the person in charge and the person in charge of the
treatment will apply technical and organizational measures that are appropriate to the risk
that the treatment entails, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of
application, the nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, the risks of
probability and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned.

Likewise, the security measures must be adequate and
proportionate to the detected risk, pointing out that the determination of the measures
technical and organizational information must be carried out taking into account: pseudonymization and
encryption, the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
resiliency, the ability to restore availability and access to data after a
incident, verification process (not audit), evaluation and assessment of the
effectiveness of the measures.

In any case, when evaluating the adequacy of the level of security,
particularly taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, such as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data and that could cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

In this same sense, recital 83 of the RGPD states that:

“(83) In order to maintain security and prevent the treatment from violating the
provided in this Regulation, the person in charge or the person in charge must evaluate

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/14

the risks inherent to the treatment and apply measures to mitigate them, such as
encryption. These measures must guarantee an adequate level of security, including
confidentiality, taking into account the state of the art and the cost of its application
regarding the risks and the nature of the personal data that must be
protect yourself. When assessing the risk in relation to data security,
take into account the risks arising from the processing of personal data,
such as the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or access is not
authorized to said data, susceptible in particular to cause damages
physical, material or immaterial.

The responsibility of the claimed party is determined by the bankruptcy of
security revealed by the claimant, since it is responsible for taking
decisions aimed at effectively implementing technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk
to ensure the confidentiality of the data, restoring its availability and preventing
free access to them.

However, the documentation provided shows that the entity did not
has not only failed to comply with this obligation, but also the adoption of
measures in this regard, except for the cancellation of the company's computer application
hired by the community.

In accordance with the foregoing, it is estimated that the defendant would be the
responsible for the infringement of the RGPD: the violation of article 32, infringement
typified in article 83.4.a).

viii

The defendant alleges that in no way can the Co-
community of Advocacy Owners and that “making decisions aimed at implementing
Effectively promote the appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure
guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk”, is the responsibility of the company
owner of the application, because due to its idiosyncrasy as a Community of Owners, it does not
has possibilities to deal with technical or other issues in an application
third-party computing, and therefore, is not responsible for violating article 32 of the RGPD.

However, such an allegation could not be admitted either; the claimed is the
responsible for data processing, in the present case the community of
owners, the natural or legal person or public authority in charge of deciding on
the processing of personal data of individuals. which is responsible for determining
the purposes and means for the treatment, to establish the technical measures and
organizations that guarantee the security of the data, who decides if they want to have
with the help of a data processor, or if you decide to carry out the treatment of
data by itself. In addition, a minimum diligence would have sufficed to verify
that the personal data was exposed to the public

In article 24 of the RGPD, the objectives are indicated in a general way, making
emphasize their obligation to apply the necessary technical and organizational measures
to guarantee compliance with the law in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/14

"1. Taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
treatment as well as the risks of varying probability and severity for the rights
and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller will apply measures
appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to guarantee and be able to demonstrate that the
processing is in accordance with this Regulation. These measures will be reviewed and
will update when necessary.

2. When they are provided in relation to treatment activities,
The measures mentioned in paragraph 1 shall include the application, by the
responsible for the treatment, of the appropriate data protection policies.

3. Adherence to codes of conduct approved under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may be used
as elements to demonstrate compliance with the obligations by the
data controller”.

IX

Finally, the assumption examined is motivated by the evidence that the
claimed by allowing access through the established application to documents
community, among which are minutes with personal data and situations of
non-payment, there has been a breach of the technical and organizational measures
violating the confidentiality of the data.

Said conduct constitutes the infringement of the provisions of articles 5.1.f) and

32.1 of the GDPR.

However, as pointed out in the motion for a resolution, these
infractions can be sanctioned with a warning in accordance with article
58.2.b) of the RGPD and consider that the administrative fine that could fall with
in accordance with the provisions of article 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD would constitute a burden
disproportionate to the claimant.

At this point, it is necessary to point out that if you do not correct and reiterate the
conduct revealed in the claim and that is the cause of this
procedure, as well as not informing this AEPD of the measures adopted could
proceed to the exercise of possible actions before the person in charge of the treatment to
so that appropriate measures are effectively applied to guarantee the
treatment and confidentiality of personal data and do not return to
incidents such as the one that has given rise to this file, as well as
the provision of supporting evidence of compliance with what is required.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ADDRESS the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1,
for infringement of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/14

and 83.4.a) of the RGPD, a warning.

SECOND: REQUIRE the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS B.B.B., with NIF
***NIF.1, so that within a month from the notification of this resolution,
proves the adoption of necessary and pertinent measures in accordance with the regulations
tive regarding the protection of personal data in order to avoid that in the
incidents such as those that have given rise to the claim occur again in the future
correcting the effects of its possible infraction, adapting the treatment of the data
of a personal nature to the requirements contemplated in articles 5.1.f), and 32.1 of the
GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the OWNER COMMUNITY-
RIOS B.B.B.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the interested party
do states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If it is-
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing
addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Re-
Electronic registry of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or to
through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law
39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
that proves the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the
Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
tive within two months from the day following the notification of this
resolution, would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

