1/6

Procedure No.: PS/00378/2018

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection before
Mrs. A.A.A., by virtue of a claim transferred to this body by D.G.
CIVIL GUARD, SAN PEDRO DE MERIDA POST (hereinafter, the claimant)
and based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: The claim filed by the claimant (DG. Civil Guard) has
entry dated July 19, 2018 in the Spanish Agency for Data Protection.
The claim is directed against A.A.A. with NIF *** DNI.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The grounds on which the claim is based are “installation on your property
particular with orientation towards the public thoroughfare "with the purpose of obtaining images of
your vehicle”, without having any informative poster and affecting the right of the
pedestrians without just cause.

SECOND: In view of the known data, the Subdirectorate General for Inspection
of Data proceeded to carry out preliminary investigation actions for the
clarification of the facts in question, in accordance with the power recognized
in art. 58.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of April 27, 2016 regarding the protection of natural persons in what
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of these data and
which repeals Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation)
(hereinafter GDPR).

The claim transferred to this body provides the complaint of a neighbor
of the locality, for the installation towards his garage of some type of device of
capturing images without just cause, which may affect your right to
privacy.

THIRD: On December 3, 2018, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 5 of the RGPD, in connection with article 6 of the
mentioned normative text, infraction typified when treating personal data outside of
permitted cases affecting the rights of third parties without just cause and
disproportionate to the purpose of the system, which may lead to the imposition
administrative sanction pursuant to art. 58.2 in connection with article 83 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 01/08/2019, this body receives a written manuscript from
response of the accused party by means of which he states the following:

“The location in the home of my property cannot be considered as
an installation because it has never worked and therefore they have not captured

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/6

pictures of people/public places (...)

I will proceed to immediately remove the camera from public thoroughfares…because the

I have withdrawn earlier.

Certified photocopies of the Appearance Proceedings by the

damages that are occurring in the vehicle you own (...).

For the above: I request that this writing be admitted in time and
form and proceed to dictate a new Resolution, filing the actions and the possible
infraction (…)”.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 07/19/18, a written document from the Armed Forces and
State Security Forces (Civil Guard-San Pedro de Mérida Post)
motivated by the processing of data carried out through cameras of a security system.
video surveillance, installed in your private property facing the road
public “for the purpose of obtaining images of your vehicle”, without having a poster
informative and affecting the rights of pedestrians without just cause.

SECOND: It is accredited as the main responsible for the installation of a
image capturing device Doña AAA.

THIRD: It is proven that the accused has an associated web-cam
to the laptop looking outside (Exhibit 1).

FOURTH: No image has been provided of what, in his case, was captured with the
mentioned device, although it states “that it will proceed to withdraw immediately from
public roads"; I do not attach any photograph of the removal of the window of the
device in question.

FIFTH: The reason for the installation of the external device is caused according to
declares the one denounced for damages and flaws in the vehicle of its property, the
which usually parks in front of it.

In support of his statements, he provides documentary evidence (copy of
Complaints before the State Security Forces and Bodies) for various damages
in his vehicle, access door to the house and threats, among other issues, without
that the presumed material author of the same may specify (Annex Doc. I).

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/6

December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to resolve this procedure.

II

The defendant is imputed the commission of an infraction for violation of article 5
of the RGPD, which states that: "Personal data will be treated:" adequate,
relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed ("data minimization").

  Article 6.1 of the RGPD (Legality of the treatment) establishes the assumptions
specific conditions under which the processing of personal data is considered lawful.
the interested.

The treatment of images in public places can only be carried out -in your
case and prior compliance with the legally enforceable requirements-, by the Forces and
Security Forces, unless the exception established in article 4.3 operates
of Instruction 1/2006, of November 8, of this Agency, which establishes:

“Cameras and video cameras installed in private spaces may not
obtain images of public spaces unless it is essential for the
surveillance purpose that is intended, or it is impossible to avoid it by reason of the
location of those. In any case, any data processing should be avoided.
unnecessary for the intended purpose.

It should be noted that individuals can install video surveillance cameras,
but they cannot be oriented towards the public road and/or private space
of third parties, affecting their privacy without just cause.

III

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the RGPD, in its
art. 58.2 b) establishes the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

Article 58. 2 letter d) within the corrective powers of each Authority of
control allows “Ordering the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/6

processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
when proceeding in a certain way and within a specified period”.

IV

In the present case, the facts are limited to the installation of some type of
device in the window owned by Doña A.A.A., facing the road
public without just cause.

The defendant does not clarify to this body the type of device she has, if
well in a demonstration before the Security Forces and Corps acknowledges that he has
a web-cam, which sometimes directs from the window to the outside, being able to
obtain images of public roads.

Article 1 "in fine" of Instruction 1/2006 (AEPD) provides the following: "The
references contained in this Instruction to video cameras and cameras will be understood
also made to any analogous technical means and, in general, to any
system that allows the treatments foreseen in it”.

A device such as the one described allows obtaining images in time
real, as well as the recording of the same to the hard disk of the personal computer, which
would imply a "processing of personal data" without just cause, especially if the
It is oriented towards the public highway.

The defendant provides various police reports in which she states that
has been suffering various acts of vandalism (breaking of the door, scratches on the vehicle,
firecrackers, etc), which in his opinion would justify the placement, in order to prove the
author of the denounced acts.

This organism has manifested itself on several occasions towards acts
vandalism carried out furtively by third parties in bad faith, establishing that
A restrictive interpretation of the regulations supposes a situation of defenselessness to the
victim of them.

In cases such as those described, the contribution, if any, of the images has been
to carry out the State Security Forces and Corps or Investigating Judge
closest to the place of commission of the acts, to which it corresponds to assess the
themselves, well let's not forget that we are talking about an alleged Crime of damages
(art. 263 CP LO 10/1995).

Having stated the foregoing, it should be noted that there are means for the protection of the
vehicle, such as the installation of an audible alarm or a camera
hidden inside it, temporarily.

In any case, professional advice would be recommended.
in the matter, in order to provide certain protection to the property, through the
installation of a camera system, which must comply with current legislation, this
is, the cameras must be oriented towards your private property, have
informative device in visible area and the obtaining of images must be
proportionate to the purpose of the system.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/6

The chambers can be exterior, with a preferential orientation towards the
space adjacent to the dwelling, so as to capture any damage to the
entrance lock of the same or allows to identify the alleged perpetrator of the acts
vandalism

The essential thing is that at least one informative poster be placed in a visible area,
indicating that it is a video-surveillance zone and adopting the necessary measures
so as not to intimidate the privacy of the neighbors.

v

In accordance with the foregoing, it is proven that the defendant has
a device facing public roads, without just cause, although it is
acknowledges that it has been the victim of various acts of vandalism.

This, however, does not justify any measure adopted by the defendant,
given that the possibility of obtaining images of the possible
perpetrators, through less intrusive means of the privacy of their neighbors, who may
be intimidated by the presence of the device in question.

To the above, add that the mere statements made are not
sufficient to determine whether or not the effective withdrawal of the device has proceeded in
question, given that it states "it will proceed to remove it from public roads", without accompanying
no document (eg photographic evidence with date and time) that corroborates such
extreme.

This being the reason why it is considered reasonable to proceed to warn the
denounced in the exposed terms, having to withdraw immediately in its case the
web-cam of the window and, where appropriate, you must prove such extreme before this
organism (eg contribution of photograph with date and time of the window where it was
device installed).

You may, in your case, if you deem it appropriate, request advice from this
body, providing all the necessary data, or raise the issue with the
Forces and Bodies of Security of the locality, in order that the installation of a
camera system can fulfill the intended function and do not leave it in a
helpless situation in the face of the acts of vandalism described.

Finally, both parties are reminded that it is advisable to adapt their
conduct to the minimum rules of good neighborliness, avoiding instrumentalizing the
public bodies, in matters of neighborhood quarrels, far from the guardianship
effectiveness of the rights that we are obliged to protect.

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: PROCEED to WARN Ms. A.A.A., for the infraction of article 5
RGPD, in connection with article 6 of the aforementioned normative text, ordering that
proceed by virtue of the provisions of article 58.2 letter d) RGPD:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/6

-Removal of the image capture device from the exterior window of the

property facing public roads without just cause.

-Contribution of documentary evidence (photograph with date and time) that proves the

effective removal of the same from the window of the property.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Ms. A.A.A. and, according to art. 77.2
of the RGPD, INFORM the claimant about the result of the claim.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 114.1 c) of
the LPACAP, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

