Press Release: No.4/2021
Magdeburg, June 28, 2021

 
L e a n g e s m a n i c e d e r f o r d a t a t p o t e c t i o n
 

 

State Commissioner for Data Protection urges compliance with data

protection in test centers

 

The Federal Coronavirus Test Ordinance grants citizens

a right to a free citizen test. The resulting ten

thousands of data records contain not only the last name, first name, address, birth

data, telephone numbers, passwords, test results, but in many cases also

the ID card numbers. This means that the test centers are not only concerned with sensitive

health data, but also the crucial data for an identity thief

steel. Identity theft is the misuse of personal

personal data of a person (identity) by (criminal) third parties. with the

can e.g. B. online transactions, borrowing or the opening of

accounts subject to mandatory payment are made at the expense of the person concerned.

As a result, there is not only a risk of trouble, but also a considerable economic one

Damage. The initiation of criminal proceedings for fraud with regard to the

supposedly concluded commitments can result in identity theft

hit threaten. Finally, the perpetrators with the data can also be opposed

impersonate authorities as someone else. Against this background, the protection of

data generated in the test centers is particularly important. This applies both during

operation of the stations, but also after completion of this activity.

 

Many of the operators will change business again after the pandemic

or cease their activity altogether. Urgent precautions must be taken here

that the data records are protected in such a way that no one can misuse them.

 

This presupposes that the test centers have clear data protection regulations for operation

standards were specified and assistance was offered. It was and is therefore

necessary that the operators of the test centers have a plausible concept for data security

submit a statement.

 

  

Press Release: No.4/2021
Magdeburg, June 28, 2021

 
L e a n g e s m a n i c e d e r f o r d a t a t p o t e c t i o n
 

"I strongly recommend that the health authorities commission the test centers

tres to data protection-compliant handling in the ongoing process, but also

after completing the activity to stop. Companies that support the

need technical data security, according to information from the Federal

Health Ministry at any time with questions to the Federal Office for Security in the

information technology (BSI).” said Albert Cohaus, who as representative in the office

Performs the tasks of the state commissioner for data protection.

 

"Of course, the data protection obligations apply in particular to the operators

ber. But the health authorities also have a share of responsibility through the commissioning

commitment to protecting citizens from data misuse.”

 

For this reason, the responsible persons of the cities and counties were today

requested in writing by the State Commissioner for Data Protection to

responsibility to ensure compliance with data protection by the operators.

The information sheet "Notes on test centers" is attached to the letter. This can

also from the homepage of the state commissioner (https://datenschutz.sachsen-an-

halt.de/service/aktuelles/) can be downloaded.

 

 

 

 

 

Imprint:

 
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
 
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
 
ladder street 9, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803-0
Fax: 0391 81803-33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

