1/7

 File No.: PS/00428/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated May 20, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against the GALICIAN HEALTH SERVICE with CIF Q6550006H
(hereinafter, SERGAS). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

The complaining party states that his written complaint for harassment has been provided
against two colleagues from the department of *** DEPARTMENT.1 of the
Hospital ***HOSPITAL.1, to the workers involved in it. On 1/28/21 he submitted a
written to the commission of investigation of the harassment complaint, in which he explained the
leaking of the complaint and the violation of the principle of confidentiality that governs the
process. The complaining party states that, in addition, in the written complaint,
contained his ID, address and other information that should not have been provided to the
denounced.
Together with the claim, the complaint for workplace harassment is provided, the letter sent to the
Commission, a written complaint of harassment in which there are some annotations
carried out by the accused, the report containing the conclusions of the
Commission and the Procedure for action in situations of workplace harassment and other
discrimination in the work of the Galician Health Service.
SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to SERGAS, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

There is no record in the file that SERGAS responded to the transfer
of the claim.

THIRD: On August 18, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On 09/27/2021 it is received in this agency, through Management
Integrated Registry Services (GEISER), a letter from SERGAS in which it is
exposes:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

-That the claimant provides services as XXXXXXX at the University Hospital
***HOSPITAL.1, dependent on SERGAS, by virtue of interim appointment
in a vacant position.

-That the complaining party has submitted briefs in which he denounced being a victim of
workplace harassment by two other workers who also serve as
XXXXXXX, although on a different shift, so it's been years since they coincided in the
working hours.

-That prior consent of the denouncing party and information to all parties
involved, the investigation procedure provided for in the Procedure for
Action Against Situations of Workplace Harassment and Other Discrimination in the
Work (P-PRL-19)

-For this purpose, the investigation commission was appointed, made up of professionals
designated by the direction of the Sanitary Area, and the Union Organizations.

-The Commission conducted an investigation of the facts, having conducted interviews
to the denouncing and denounced parties, as well as to those responsible for the unit and
various witnesses. After the corresponding analysis, it issued a report dated March 1,
2021, considering that there were no harassment behaviors.

-Within the investigation procedure, the people denounced for harassment
requested a copy of the documents in the file, and following the
established in article 53.1.a) of Law 39/2015 of October 1 on the Procedure
Common administrative, the request was granted and a copy of the documents was provided
that are in the file to the parties interested in it. Therefore, the delivery
of the complaint letter was not a leak.

-Regarding the fact that the complaining party could have had access
subsequently to the copies of the aforementioned documents, suggesting an improper
custody of the same, Hospital ***HOSPITAL.1 conducted an internal investigation,
consisting of the following:

-The complaining party manifested in other procedures (complaint before the office
of the Valedor do Pobo de Galicia) that by the cleaning staff
They had delivered a copy of the documents that constituted the complaint in the
harassment procedure (that is, those that she herself had delivered and whose
copy was provided to the accused parties)

-However, the investigations carried out show
different conclusions. There is a statement from the cleaner B.B.B. who
states that, providing cleaning work in the afternoon shift in the unit of
lingerie, the complaining party addressed her requesting that she allow him
access the work area of female workers denounced for harassment. The
cleaner did not prevent access since the complainant was a worker

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

of the same unit. He also states that he was able to observe how he accessed the
work table and cupboards used by those regularly denounced,
where they kept the copies that had been given to them within the
harassment procedure.

FIFTH: On February 18, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against SERGAS, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

Once notified of the aforementioned initiation agreement, SERGAS presented a brief of allegations in
which, in summary, stated that:

1-Since the AEPD has not addressed the Ministry of Health, they have not had
prior record of the procedure.

In this regard, it should be noted that the request for information and transfer of the
claim filed in this Agency by the claimant party addressed the
SERGAS, to the attention of the controller or its Delegate of
Data Protection, through the Electronic Notification Service and Address
Electronic Enabled, stating as received on 06/14/2021.

It should also be noted that article 14 of Law 40/2015 on the Legal Regime of the
Public Sector establishes in its first section:

"1. The administrative body that is deemed incompetent for the resolution of
a case will refer the proceedings directly to the body it deems
authority, and this circumstance must be notified to the interested parties.”

Therefore, if the recipient of the document sent by the AEPD was not the one indicated to
resolve the matter should have referred it to the corresponding body, without this being able to
be considered the responsibility of the AEPD, so such an allegation cannot be accepted.

2- SERGAS alleges that in an action procedure in situations of
workplace harassment and other discrimination at work, the complaint form collects
the documentation agreed by all those responsible for the preparation of said
protocol and the rest of the documentation has been the one that the Processing Commission of
estimated necessary to collect to process said file. Because of this, the A.S. Lugo
provided the documentation in its entirety to the interested parties who had so
reclaimed.

In this regard, it should be noted that personal data such as the number of the
DNI or address, are not necessary, pertinent or adequate for the exercise of the
defense of the workers denounced in the procedure of workplace harassment.

SIXTH: On March 30, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
penalize the GALICIAN HEALTH SERVICE (SERGAS), with CIF Q6550006H, for
an infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD,
with a warning.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

Once the resolution proposal has been notified and the deadline for it has elapsed, there is no evidence that
new allegations have been presented by SERGAS.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: It is accredited that the claimant provides services as
XXXXXXX at the University Hospital ***HOSPITAL.1, dependent on SERGAS, and
who has submitted briefs in which he denounced being a victim of workplace harassment by
of two other workers who also provide service as XXXXXXX, although in
different turn.

SECOND: It is accredited that the planned investigation procedure was initiated
in the Procedure for Action in Situations of Workplace Harassment and Other
Discrimination at Work (P-PRL-19), and that within the procedure of
investigation, the people denounced for harassment requested a copy of the
documents in the file, and following the provisions of article 53.1.a)
of Law 39/2015 of October 1 of the common Administrative Procedure, it was agreed
as requested and a copy of the documents in the file was provided.

THIRD: It is accredited that SERGAS has disclosed data on
personal character not necessary, pertinent or adequate, such as the number of the
DNI or address, when transferring the complaint for workplace harassment filed by the
claimant party, for the exercise of the defense of the workers denounced in the
workplace harassment procedure.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

 Principle of minimization of data processing

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

SERGAS is accused of committing an infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.

Article 5, “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed (“data minimization”);”

Article 83.5 of the RGPD, under the heading "General conditions for the imposition
of administrative fines” provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

From the investigation carried out in this proceeding, it is concluded that the
SERGAS has violated the provisions of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, by transferring
the complaint filed by the claimant to the workers denounced for harassment
employment, without omitting unnecessary data for your defense, such as ID and address
of the interested

Therefore, the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD is accredited.

Sanction for the infringement of article 5.1.c) of the RGPD

III

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

Article 83 section 7 of the RGPD, provides the following:

Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under
of Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether
can, and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and organizations
public authorities established in that Member State.”

Likewise, article 77 “Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment” of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

(…)
c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.
(…)

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.
(…)
5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

IV

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the GALICIAN HEALTH SERVICE (SERGAS), with NIF
Q6550006H, for an infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the GALICIAN HEALTH SERVICE
(SERGAS).

THIRD: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman,
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-100322

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

