Case number: NAIH / 2020/2204/8.

Subject: Own-initiative decision
procedure
DECISION

The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information ("the Authority") is Deichmann
Shoe Trading Limited Liability Company (registered office 1134 Budapest, Kassák Lajos utca
19-25, company registration number: 0109693582; hereinafter referred to as the Debtor or the Company) - May 25, 2018.
For the period from 1 March to 3 March 2020,
in the General Data Protection Regulation1
ex officio data protection authority to verify compliance with the requirements set out in
make the following decisions in the proceedings :.
1.

The Authority finds that in dealing with the applications submitted by […], the Debtor shall:
(a) infringed the rules on the right of access in Article 15 (1) of the Regulation
containing provisions
(b) has infringed Article 18 (1) (c) of the Regulation to restrict data processing
containing the rules of the law of the
(c) infringed Article 12 (4) of the Regulation.

2.
The Authority shall establish the May 25, 2018 and
the illegality of its procedure in force between 1 August 2006 in so far as it did not do so
appropriate technical and organizational measures to enable camera data management
related data should be ensured in accordance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation.
3.
The Authority notes the 26 November 2019
the illegality of its procedure in force between 3 and 3 March 2020 in so far as it does not
has taken appropriate technical and organizational measures to enable camera data management
related rights, in particular the right of access and the processing of data
exercise of the right to restrict - provided for in the General Data Protection Regulation
be.
4.
The Authority shall notify the Debtor of the infringements found in points 1, 2 and 3 during the period under review.
within 30 days of the date on which this Decision becomes final
HUF 20,000,000, ie HUF twenty million
data protection fine
obliges to pay.
The measures taken by the Debtor shall govern the initiation of judicial review
shall inform the Authority within 30 days of the expiry of the time limit for bringing proceedings.
The fine shall be imposed by the Authority on centralized revenue within 30 days of the decision becoming final
direct debit forint account (10032000-01040425-00000000 Centralized collection account
IBAN: HU83 1003 2000 0104 0425 0000 0000). When transferring the amount, NAIH / 2020 /

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
and on the free movement of such data and repealing Regulation (EC) No 95/46 (General Data Protection Regulation or GDPR or Regulation)
1

2

2204/8. JUDGE. number should be referred to.
If the Debtor fails to meet its obligation to pay the fine within the time limit, he shall be liable for a penalty payment.
to pay. The amount of the late payment allowance is the statutory interest, which is the first of the calendar semester affected by the delay
equal to the central bank base rate valid on Non - payment of fines and penalties for late payment
In that case, the Authority shall order the enforcement of the decision.
recovery.
There shall be no administrative appeal against this decision, but it shall be subject to a right of appeal within 30 days of its notification
An action brought before the Metropolitan Court may be challenged in an administrative action within one day. THE
The application shall be submitted to the Authority, electronically, which shall forward it together with the case - file to the
court. The request to hold a hearing must be indicated in the application. The whole personal
The fee for the court review procedure for non-exempt persons is HUF 30,000, the subject matter of the lawsuit
subject to the right to record duties. Legal representation is mandatory in proceedings before the Metropolitan Court.
The Authority shall include the decision on the website with the identification of the Debtor involved in the proceedings as a client […].
(hereinafter referred to as the “Customer”).
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT

I.

Procedure and clarification of the facts

I.1. History, notification to the Authority
The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority (hereinafter: the Authority) received and
NAIH / 2019/2507. In the notification filed under case number, the Client submitted that on 26 May 2018 a
He bought in the obligatory shop of Kaposvár (7400 Kaposvár, Achim András utca 4; hereinafter: the Shop) in the value of HUF nine thousand nine hundred and ninety
returning. He also stated that he later noticed that he had paid with twenty thousand forints banknotes, the block
According to
On 29 May 2018, the Customer lodged a complaint, about which - on the objection of consumer quality -
minutes were recorded. The record states that the notifier was informed of his complaint
can do to the police.
In a letter addressed to the Company on May 29, 2018, the Client described in detail the
events, and then made a request to the Company to view the
or requested that the camera not be deleted until
the objected case has not been verified. The Applicant has also informed the Company that - the Business is past
on his advice - he also approached the police, who recommended that he contact the Society.
The Company responded to the Customer's request dated May 29, 2018 on June 19, 2018. THE
in a reply letter informing him that camera recording was only for the police - official police
upon request - they can issue it, they can turn to the Somogy County Police Headquarters with a legal remedy.
On May 30, 2018, the Customer also entered his "complaint" in the customer's book in the Store. E
document contains the applicant’s request that “on 26 May 2018 (5:14 p.m.
saved by the company’s management ’, as this is the only evidence
you need admission to validate your additional needs. The Store in connection with the application it
the remark stated that “At the closing of the current day’s cash register, the cash surplus and cash surplus are not
generated ’.

3

On June 25, 2018, the Client filed a police report against an unknown perpetrator, however, the police
during the procedure, the camera was no longer available at the time of the request.
The Authority has instructed the Client on the types of proceedings that can be initiated at the Authority and these
the manner and conditions for initiating an investigation by the Authority after training
did not submit a request for an official procedure.
I.2. Official control initiated ex officio
I.2.1. In view of the above, the Authority considered it appropriate to initiate an ex officio official inspection of it
in order to check whether the Company complies with the data management practices applied by it
requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation. Official inspection on 12 December 2019
started NAIH / 2019/8543. case number. During the official inspection, the Authority found that:
The company operated cameras extensively in all 129 stores across the country
period.
During the official inspection, the Company stated that there was only one during the period under review
a request has been received from the data subject "in this regard" (ie in relation to access to camera recordings) a
To the company. The access right was not handled by a central instruction but by a faulty individual
caused by a decision which, in the opinion of the Company, is an internal regulation in accordance with the regulation
its absence at that time: when the decree became applicable, on 25 May 2018, the Company had not yet done so
had no internal data management regulations for camera recordings, so it was not
regulating, inter alia, the way in which applications from the data subject are to be handled.
The Company itself acknowledged that it did not comply with the Regulation
processing of the data subject's request received during the investigation period.
The Company has identified the need to regulate surveillance systems used in stores
therefore from 18 June to 1 August 2018 in all its stores
made the decision to turn off the camera system until the appropriate controls were in place
prepare.
The Company 's regulations for the electronic monitoring system (hereinafter: the Regulations) 2019.
adopted on 26 November 2006, which contains, inter alia, detailed instructions on how to
how to handle requests for access to camera recordings. From this day
the Company again recorded the camera footage, which it stores for 7 days.
I.2.2. In this connection, the Regulations state that “A person whose right or legitimate interest
the recording of the image affects, you may, by proving your right or legitimate interest, request that the recording be
not be destroyed or deleted by the controller until requested to do so by a court or authority, but not later than 30
napra. The data subject may also request that the controller inform him or her in writing of what
can be seen in the recording containing him. The data subject can only receive a copy of a recording on which another person has it
not or only in an unrecognizable way. If the above cannot be met, the data controller will provide it
for the data subject to view the recording that contains him or her. Review camera shots
can only be performed at the headquarters of Deichmann Cipőkereskedelmi Kft
the auditor and other staff entrusted with technical tasks by the administrator may be present. "
The Regulations also state that applications must be addressed to the registered office of the Company or to the
can be delivered to the e-mail address adatvedelem@deichmann.com, which the Company will receive upon receipt of the application.
examine and provide information on the measures taken within one month.
The Code also provides information that you can assert your rights before the court concerned, and a
You can also file a complaint with an authority.

4

I.3. Official proceedings initiated ex officio
I.3.1. Given that the information revealed during the official inspection, the Authority stated that
it is probable that the Company has violated the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, 2020.
On 4 March, it decided ex officio to initiate official data protection proceedings.
The official procedure was aimed at examining whether the Company was general during the period under review
whether the data subject has received or received the data subject's requests in accordance with the Data Protection Regulation
compliance with the general data protection regulation
included.
Although the Authority, following the alleged infringement found in the notification,
the Company reported on its general practice in managing rights, the Company reported
that it had received a single application from the data subject during the period considered. Because it affected the Company in this way
the identity of the person exercising his rights, ie the Client, has become identifiable and the Authority, as
The company claimed that there was no such claim - the findings were specific to it
you can do it. In view of this, the Authority involved the Client as a client on 4 June 2020
dated, NAIH / 2020/2204/6. in order no.
I.3.2. During the official proceedings, the Debtor stated that it had received inquiries from customers
the following records are maintained: Conciliation Board inquiries (4-500 inquiries per year),
letters of complaint received by e-mail (1192 letters at the time of the Debtor's letter of 24 March),
customer book. On the basis of the Debtor's statement, the Authority found that during the period under review
the Debtor has not kept separate records on the data protection subject of the exercise of the data subject's rights
inquiries.
The Debtor stated that between 25 May and 1 August 2018, the cameras recorded the
image, between August 1, 2018 and November 26, 2019, the monitors showed a mere live image, and then
From November 26, 2019, the recording of camera recordings resumed.
The Debtor sent a letter dated 15 June 2018 entitled “33. circular ", which
circular 5.4. contains the Debtor 's decision to operate the cameras in all
shop shut down.
In the first period (May 25-August 1, 2018) in the vicinity of the entrance and inside the store
stickers provided information on the fact of camera data management. According to the submitted Annex 2 / A a
information was provided with the following text: “Camera-monitored area. The recording is for recording
costs. "
In the second period (August 1, 2018 to November 26, 2019) on viable observation also a
glued stickers provided information. A 2 / C. The following wording has been added in accordance with Annex
"Camera-monitored area". Section 3.3.1 of the Annex provided guidance on what to do
stickers must be placed on the doors. A 3.3.1. to place the “Camera Monitored Area” sticker
he was instructed that this sticker should only be placed in stores where the camera
records.
In the third period (from 26 November 2019), the information will be displayed on the shop and mirror.
it happened with stickers. In addition, the Debtor provided information to its employees on the special a
also in the data management information prepared for them.
I.3.3. On December 20, 2019, the Company sent it to all stores, area managers, decorators
and Circular No. 66 to the Helpdesk. In Circular 66, the Company expressly requested the employees to
to read the information on camera data management in addition to the information for employees a
version for customers, so that they know what permissions customers have
when retrieving camera recordings.

5

I.3.4. The Debtor further submitted that the Authority take the following facts as mitigating
taken into account as a circumstance: the Debtor ordered the data processing after recognizing the infringing condition
elimination; On November 26, 2019, the Electronic Surveillance System was adopted
regulations; only one stakeholder application was received during the period considered; privacy
the transformation of data management practices with the involvement of legal professionals is under way; the notifier is so
tried to compensate for the fact that he had been offered thirty thousand forints, which the applicant did not accept.
el.
II. Applicable law
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (1), the scope of this Act - with regard to personal data
as defined in paragraph 1, covers all processing of personal data
and data of public interest or public data in the public interest.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council
(hereinafter referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation)
the Data Protection Regulation in Annexes III-V. and VI / A. Chapter 3 and Sections 3, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21,
23-24. Section 4 (5), Section 5 (3) to (5), (7) and (8), Section 13 (2)
§ 23, § 25, 25 / G. § (3), (4) and (6), 25 / H. § (2)
paragraph 25 / M. § (2), 25 / N. §, 51 / A. § (1), Articles 52-54. § 55 (1) - (2), 56-60. §, 60 / A. § (1) - (3) and (6), § 61 (1)
paragraph 61 (a) and (c), Section 61 (2) and (3), paragraph (4) (b) and paragraphs (6) to (10)
paragraphs 62 to 71. §, § 72, § 75 (1) - (5), 75 / A. § and 1.
shall apply with the additions set out in Annex I.
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), in order to enforce the right to the protection of personal data
the Authority may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings.
According to recital 171 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the application of this Regulation
within two years of the entry into force of this Regulation
should be brought into line with this Regulation. If the processing is based on consent under Directive 95/46 / EC
and the data subject has given his or her consent in accordance with the conditions laid down in this Regulation
re-apply for the consent of the data subject in order for the controller to apply the date of application of this Regulation
you can continue to manage your data afterwards. Decisions taken by the Commission under Directive 95/46 / EC
and authorizations issued by the supervisory authorities shall remain valid until
they shall not be amended, replaced or repealed.
Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, this Regulation applies to personal data
automated processing of data, in whole or in part, and their personal data
non-automated processing of data which are part of a registration system
which are intended to be part of a registration system.
The processing of personal data pursuant to Article 5 (1) (a) of the General Data Protection Regulation
be carried out lawfully and fairly and in a manner which is transparent to the data subject (‘legality,
fair procedure and transparency ”).
Pursuant to Article 12 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is appropriate
take measures to ensure that the data subject
all the information referred to in Articles 13 and 14 and Articles 15 to 22. and Article 34
information in a concise, transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible form, in a clear and comprehensible manner
particularly in the case of any information addressed to children. The
information shall be provided in writing or by other means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means. The
Oral information may be provided at the request of the data subject, provided that the data subject has otherwise provided evidence
identity.

6

Pursuant to Article 12 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if the controller does not do so
measures at the request of the data subject, without delay but at the latest upon receipt of the request
inform the person concerned of the reasons for not taking action within one month of
that the person concerned may lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority and have recourse to the courts.
Information pursuant to Articles 13 and 14 pursuant to Article 12 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation
and 15-22. The information and action provided for in Articles 1 and 34 shall be provided free of charge. If concerned
request is manifestly unfounded or, in particular due to its repetitive nature, excessive, the controller,
the provision of the requested information or information or the taking of the requested action
administrative costs:
Pursuant to Article 13 (2) (b) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller (…) is personal
at the time of data acquisition, in order to ensure fair and transparent data management
inform the data subject of his or her right to request from the controller
access, rectification, erasure or processing of personal data relating to
and may object to the processing of such personal data and to the data subject
the right to data portability.
Pursuant to Article 15 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
receive feedback from the data controller that your personal data is being processed
and if such processing is in progress, the right to have access to personal data (…)
access.
Pursuant to Article 15 (3) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is the subject of the processing
provide the data subject with a copy of the personal data Additional requested by the data subject
for copies, the controller may charge a reasonable fee based on administrative costs.
If the data subject submitted the application electronically, the information was widely used
shall be provided in electronic format, unless otherwise requested by the data subject.
The copy referred to in paragraph 3 pursuant to Article 15 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation
the right to claim must not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others.
Pursuant to Article 18 (1) (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the data subject is entitled to:
at the request of the data controller, the data processing shall be restricted if the data controller no longer needs the personal data
data for data processing purposes, but the data subject requests them in order to submit legal claims,
to enforce or protect.
Pursuant to Article 24 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is the nature of the processing,
the scope, circumstances and purposes of the Convention and the rights and freedoms of natural persons,
appropriate technical and organizational measures taking into account the varying probability and severity of the risk
take measures to ensure and demonstrate that the processing of personal data e
in accordance with this Regulation. These measures shall be reviewed by the controller and, if necessary,
it updates.
Pursuant to Article 24 (2) of the General Data Protection Regulation, if it is a data processing activity
as part of the measures referred to in paragraph 1
it also applies internal data protection rules.
Pursuant to Article 25 (1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the controller is a science and technology
the nature, scope, circumstances and purposes of the data processing,
and the rights and freedoms of natural persons
taking into account the severity of the risk, both when determining the way in which the data are to be processed and
it shall take appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymisation, in the course of data processing
implemented, on the one hand, the principles of data protection, such as data protection, are effective

7

the requirements of this Regulation and the rights of data subjects
Incorporate the necessary safeguards into the data management process.
According to recital 78 of the General Data Protection Regulation, natural persons
the protection of their rights and freedoms with regard to the processing of their personal data requires
appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that the requirements of this Regulation are met
making. In order for the controller to be able to demonstrate compliance with this Regulation, it shall be internal
apply the rules and implement measures that comply
in particular the principles of privacy by design and default.
Infotv. In its decision made in the data protection authority proceedings pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a)
in connection with the data processing operations specified in Section 2 (2) and (4), the Authority shall
may apply the legal consequences set out in the General Data Protection Regulation.
Pursuant to Article 58 (2) (b), (d) and (i) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the supervisory authority
condemns the controller or processor, acting in his or her capacity to rectify data, if he or she is a data controller
infringed the provisions of the Regulation or administrative proceedings in accordance with Article 83
shall impose fines on the measures referred to in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances of the case
in addition to or instead of them.
Pursuant to Article 83 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation, the principles of data processing, including
Articles 5, 6, 7 and 9 of the General Data Protection Regulation
in accordance with Article 83 (2), a maximum of EUR 20 000 000
or, in the case of undertakings, the full financial year of the previous financial year
up to 4% of its worldwide turnover, with the higher of the two
an amount shall be charged.
III. Decision:
The General Data Protection Regulation shall apply from 25 May 2018, ie on 26 May 2018
applications submitted in the following days
should be used.
However, the Regulation already entered into force on 27 April 2016 and recital 171
for data processing started before the date of application of this Regulation
The data protection rules provided for a "grace period" of two years from the date of entry into force of this Regulation
to comply with this Regulation.
Although the period under review does not cover data processing prior to 25 May 2018, the Authority
notes that the data protection rules also ensure that the data subject is exercised during this period
was of paramount importance: the right of the data subject to information was also recorded and the practice of the Authority
that right also included the right of access to the camera recordings concerned and the right to block them
The data processing regulated in the GDPR was a similar legal institution in terms of the content of the right to
the way in which the applicant's applications had to be handled had to be known
should have been before the Company.
III.1. Handling Customer Requests
As the Company reported that it received only one interested party during the period considered,
and thus the identity of the person exercising his / her rights with the Company has become identifiable, the Authority a
Findings received by the Company regarding the handling of the affected application specifically to the Client
in respect of which it does so.
III.1.1. The Customer's request addressed to the Company on May 29, 2018 stated that it wished
view the named camera image, which is an application under Article 15 (1) of the Regulation

8

shall constitute a request for access on the basis of which the Company has access to personal data
would have been obliged to ensure that the Client had access to the recordings made about him.
It appears from the Company's letter replied on June 19, 2018 that the Company has informed about it
the Customer to have camera footage only available to the police upon official police inquiry
may appeal to the Somogy County Police Headquarters.
The Authority notes, first of all, that the camera footage of a data controller is not limited to the police
but, in addition, it is otherwise required to provide any information
court or authority, in accordance with Article 15 (3) of the GDPR
it must give a person access to the part of the recording in which that person is
person is listed.
However, Customer did not request the original camera footage or a copy thereof
From the Company, but to have access to the recorded recordings, while the Company is the recording
He did not recognize the difference between the need to view the recording and the need to release the recording, and he ruled that
request as if the Customer had requested the release of the recording, although otherwise to view the recording
and the right to issue a copy of the recording.
The Company therefore, in addition to not allowing access to the recorded camera footage, does not
neither the fact of refusal of access nor the reasons for refusal of access
information.
Based on the above, the Authority has determined that although the Company has a GDPR of one month
responded within the time limit to the Client's request for the exercise of the right concerned, did not state the reasons therefor;
why he is not allowed access to the recordings or the exercise of the rights of the data subject
denied it on appropriate grounds, so that the handling of the Customer 's right of access did not comply with the
Article 15 (1) of the GDPR.
If a data controller refuses to comply with the data subject's request, ie as a result
does not take any action, so in the present case, if the Company decides to do so for the Customer
does not grant him access to the camera footage taken of him, the GDPR
Article 12 (4) requires him to inform him, in addition to the reasons for the refusal, that:
that he can lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority (in this case the Authority) and live
with the right to go to court.
Information on the right to a remedy is particularly important in the management of data subjects' rights,
whereas a person less familiar with data protection law is not necessarily aware of it
by which authority to turn to in the event of a restriction, in the absence of such knowledge
the violation or restriction of rights that may have befallen him or her will remain unresolved. This is borne out by the fact that in the present case a
nor was the notifier aware that his application concerned a data subject
which may be challenged before the Authority. By the time the notifier is right
he became aware of the Remedies Forum, so long before it was made about it
the Company no longer had the camera, so the Authority could not oblige the Company to
to satisfy the data subject's request.
Based on the above, the Authority has determined that in refusing the Client 's request for access, the
Company has not acted pursuant to Article 12 (4) of the GDPR, so the Customer's request for access
did not comply with GDPR requirements.
III.1.2. The Customer's request dated May 29, 2018 also includes the camera recording until then
do not delete it until the case he or she objects to has been verified. The Customer is dated May 30, 2018
application states in more detail that ‘the camera recording of 26 May 2018 (taken at 5:14 pm)
save the management of the company ”because this is the only evidence and additional needs of the applicant
you need the recording to validate.

9

Pursuant to Article 18 (1) (c) of the Regulation, any interested party who, in order to bring a legal action,
in order to validate or protect the personal data processed about him, he is entitled to
at the request of the controller, the data shall not be “deleted”, even if the controller, otherwise
beyond a specified retention period - you no longer need personal data for data processing
for the purpose of
Without restrictions on data processing, it could be a common situation when you want your data subject's legal needs
enforce (e.g., file a complaint with the police or initiate court proceedings), and the commencement
If the acting body requests the camera recording required for the proof, the data would no longer be available
at the disposal of the data controller, as the retention period required for the purpose of data processing is already in place
letelne. This is also confirmed by the case of the Client, when - on the advice of the Company - he made a police report,
however, when the proceedings have reached the stage where the police request the named recording, the
Company - as the Customer's request was not taken into account - had already canceled it, so the police
The applicant's allegations and the contrary were not substantiated in the proceedings.
Enforcing the right to restrict data processing may be particularly important in a business premises
in the case of an operated camera system where money is managed, as both the buyer and the seller
There may be a need to use the recording in the proceedings if they are unaware of a contentious situation
to decide. Without the availability of recordings, both parties may be harmed, as only the camera recording
it is possible to prove the amount paid by the buyer and the amount paid by the seller
taken over, so the seller may not return it properly to the buyer, so there may be a shortage in the cash register,
or the buyer pays more money for the product than it would actually cost.
It is clear from the reply to the request, both on 29 May and 30 May 2018, that the
Company to "save the recordings" or "do not delete them until checked",
he did not react in any way.
In response to a letter dated May 29, the Company only stated that the camera recording was only
police have the opportunity to hand it over, however, it did not elaborate on the obstacle to the recordings
the fact that the recordings are not kept beyond the normal retention period,
also did not provide information to the Customer, but clearly refused to comply with the request,
as he no longer had the recordings during the police proceedings.
In its reply to the letter dated 30 May, the Company also did not explain why it did not retain the
recordings beyond the normal retention period and did not provide information on the refusal
nor, merely, that “no cash flow surplus or cash was generated at the close of the day’s cash register”.
Based on the above, the Authority has determined that the Company is restricting the processing of the Customer's data
infringed Article 12 (4) and Article 18 (1) of the GDPR in the handling of its application
(c).
III.2. The data management practice of the Debtor between 25 May and 1 August 2018
Although the Company identified only one stakeholder application during the period under review, the Authority
the statement was not accepted, as it was the conclusion based on the handling of the only known request
that the Company did not recognize, prior to the opening of the Authority’s proceedings, that the
application is subject to data protection, which is covered by Annex III of the GDPR. the exercise of the rights of data subjects under Chapter
III.2.1. On May 29, 2018, the employee filed a consumer protection complaint in the Kaposvár store a
application because it did not detect that the application was subject to data protection. The consumer complaint is being filed
according to the minutes, the acting employee also consulted with the sales department, where they also did not know
identify the affected application: the sales department also suggested that the Customer do
report.

10

On May 30, 2018, an employee working in the Kaposvár store registered the application in the customer's book.
with the Client, who has also not noticed that the application qualifies as an exercise of rights.
Nor could the customer service assistant, who was the Customer’s
by letter dated 18 June 2018 to the registered office of the Company
or, if the senior official, as the addressee of the letter, himself, the request
not even the senior official himself.
As the Company itself stated that the improper handling of the data subject's claim was due to
that the Company has no data protection regulations at all regarding camera recordings during this period
provided, the Company may have more than one known request for privacy
However, as with the known application, they were not identified
as a data protection complaint.
This is also confirmed by the fact that the Company kept a systematic record of incoming messages, but
did not separate the data subject submissions concerning data protection, but the Customer - otherwise data protection
as a consumer protection complaint and in the book of consumers
has been recorded. The Company kept three different records of incoming submissions
(Conciliation Board inquiries, e-mail complaints, customer book), but this does not mean
that other data protection notices could not have been received by the Company as the notifier
his application was also considered a complaint and an entry in the customers' book.
III.2.2. Article 24 of the GDPR contains the general obligations of the controller: based on this, the controller
shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure and demonstrate this
to ensure that personal data are processed in accordance with the GDPR. If it is data management
proportionate to the activity, the controller shall be required to comply as appropriate as part of these measures
also apply internal data protection rules.
Article 25 of the GDPR specifies the general obligations set out in Article 24: in this Article
The principle of regulated privacy by design and default explicitly requires that data subjects be involved
the guarantees necessary for the protection of the rights of the data controller should be integrated into the data processing process, ie
privacy considerations should be reflected in the design process and not in the established practice
the necessary measures should be taken.
All this means that the Company is already in the process of planning and developing camera data management - that is
before installing the cameras - you should have brought them to the organizational or technical
measures that the GDPR III they can secure their rights under this chapter.
These measures include, on the one hand, internal procedures for the management of data subjects' rights
designating, inter alia, the person responsible for handling the data subject's requests; to form
the channels through which the Company can receive applications from stakeholders; where applicable, the Data Protection Officer
designation; to establish the rules for the exercise of the rights of the data subject (eg the Company is made in stores
the right to access the camera in person, by post or electronically);
take appropriate data security measures; keep a register of data processing in accordance with Article 30.
The necessary measures also include appropriate information practices for those concerned
in which data subjects are informed about the fact of data management and most importantly
circumstances, including the rights to which they have access to the camera
and to whom and with what contact details they may make their requests
they may receive a reply within which time limit or, in the event of disagreement, to which body
for redress.
Given that the Company has extensive coverage in the country, in all 129 of its stores
operated cameras during this period, the Authority considers that camera data management
proportionate expectation that the Company, in compliance with Article 24 (2) of the GDPR,

11

also apply appropriate internal data protection rules. The Company would have been needed in this area
all its employees working with customers, in particular in the sales area and
customer service staff - teaching you what to do with GDPR camera data management
affected applications may occur, how to identify and distinguish these requests from others
from submissions and complaints, how to handle these requests, which organizational within the Company
these requests shall be forwarded to the unit.
Failure to take all of these measures has resulted in the Company not, as detailed above
acknowledged that the only known request for access under Article 15 (1) of the GDPR was
It shall be deemed to be a request for restriction within the meaning of Article 18 (1) (c). This has led to the Company -
despite repeated requests from the applicant - did not give the applicant access to the information about him
camera recording and did not restrict it. Furthermore, the Company did not inform the notifier that
appeal to the courts or the Authority, but erred in pointing out that the
camera footage can only be issued to the police upon an official police request,
You can turn to the Somogy County Police Headquarters with a legal remedy.
Given that the Company during this period is the camera data management, so is the camera
with regard to the exercise of data subjects' rights in relation to data processing
infringed Article 25 (1) of the Regulation.
III.3. Evaluation of the Debtor's data management practices performed after 26 November 2019
Regulations governing the Company's data management practices during the operation of the camera system
It was adopted on November 26, 2019, which includes, among other things, detailed instructions to that effect
on how to deal with stakeholder requests related to camera recordings.
III.3.1. Rules for handling access requests
The Policy regulates three privileges for access to camera footage: a
request written information about the events recorded on the camera, request a copy a
view the camera image.
The Regulations restrict the right of the persons concerned to issue a copy, as the Company is this document
issue a copy of the recording to the data subject only if he or she is outside the data subject
no other person is listed. If the data subject requests the release of a recording which includes others,
you will only be able to view the contents of the recording if you get tired of the Company's headquarters
(To Budapest) and watch the recording there. The Company applies this practice despite the fact that a
Article 15 (3) of the GDPR clearly states that the controller is concerned
shall provide a copy of the recording to the data subject upon request: for the first time free of charge
this can be done by the data controller, while for other occasions you may be charged for making a copy.
Based on the above, the Company is therefore obliged to issue copies, during which - Article 15 of the GDPR
Subject to paragraph 4, it shall ensure that the request for access of the data subject is complied with
the rights of another person are not violated. As the obligation to issue copies to the Company from this
Article 15 (4) of the GDPR does not have to be
in the case of other persons listed in the contract, the person concerned will not be given the camera recording he or she has requested
copy, but must be guaranteed by the Company by appropriate technical measures (eg masking),
that the rights of other persons included in the recording are not infringed while the data subject requests access
fulfills. The restriction of the rights of the data subject in this way is particularly significant because the Company is
It has business premises in a significant number of cities in the country, more than fifty
all stakeholders are expected to travel several hours to the capital headquarters if the content of the recordings
you want to know.
The Regulations also restrict the right of data subjects to view the recording, as the
It follows from the wording that the Company will only be able to view the recording

12

if, on the basis of their own practice, a person other than the data subject is included in the recording
- they cannot release the camera image.
The right to issue the copy in question is therefore provided for in Article 15 (3) of the GDPR, while the
access to personal data pursuant to Article 15 (1) of the GDPR
means. These two rights are two different sub-rights of access under Article 15 of the GDPR,
each of which belongs to the person concerned separately, so that it is not appropriate to a
practice if you can practice one (view a recording) if the other (view a recording)
copy) cannot be complied with, but the data subject's request must be in accordance with the content of the request
whether you are requesting a copy of the recording or viewing the recording.
However, Article 12 (5) of the GDPR gives the controller a limited possibility to
refuses to take action on the application of the person concerned (in this case, the
or issue a copy of it), but only if it
the application concerned is, in its view, manifestly unfounded or excessive.
Based on the above, the Authority has determined that the development of the Company's data management regulations
has taken organizational measures during the year which do not guarantee the right of access of the data subject to the
Under the conditions set out in Article 15 (1) and (3) of the GDPR, thereby violating the GDPR
Article 25 (1).
III.3.2. Designed to handle requests to limit data processing
regulation
The Code states that “the person whose right or legitimate interest in the recording of the image is affected
may, by proving his right or legitimate interest, request that the recording not be destroyed by the controller
or cancel it until the court or authority has requested it, but for no more than 30 days ’.
The Authority notes at the outset that this provision was previously contained in Act 2, which
however, after the GDPR becomes applicable on 25 May 2018, it is required for implementation
has been changed due to legal harmonization, and at the time of drafting the Regulations, the Act no longer
contained this provision.
The Authority further notes that the GDPR regulations apply to Hungarian entities from 25 May 2018
are directly applicable, except for those for the full application and implementation of
additional provisions provided for in the national legislation of some Member States are needed. In addition, the regulation
gives Member States, to a limited extent, an additional or comparable option
different rules, but the exercise of the rights of the data subject does not fall
to this circle, ie if the data subject requests the controller to restrict the processing, it shall inform the controller
you have to implement.
Neither the GDPR nor the Svv. no longer contains a rule that would require data processing only
may be limited to a maximum of 30 days from the date of the request, since if
30 days after receipt of the request for a restriction on data processing
would delete the recordings requested to be restricted, it would not help to enforce your rights
because the procedure it has initiated would not yet reach the stage where
that the acting body seek the data controller in possession of the recording.
Furthermore, the GDPR exercises the right to restrict the processing of data - or the right of any data subject
does not impose a condition for the exercise of the right of restriction
it would have to prove the right or legitimate interest of the data subject.

2

Act CXXXIII of 2005 on the rules for the protection of persons and property and the activities of private investigators. Act (hereinafter: Act)

13

The interpretation of the right to restrict data processing in this way is restrictive, so the Company
has taken organizational measures in the development of its data management rules that do not
ensure the right of data subjects to restrict the processing of data under the conditions provided for in Article 18 of the GDPR
thereby infringed Article 25 (1) of the GDPR.
ARC. Sanction and justification applied
The Authority has established that during the data processing performed by the Debtor during the period under review - the III.1.
- in the course of handling the Client's exercise of the rights of the data subject, has violated Article 12 of the Decree.
Article 15 (4) and Article 18 (1) (c) respectively. The Debtor
- a III.2. and III.3. infringed Article 25 (1) of the Regulation. This infringement
the Authority considered it appropriate to impose a fine as follows.
As to whether the imposition of a data protection fine is justified, the Authority should
Article 83 (2) of the Decree and Infotv.75 / A. § under its own motion considered the case all
and found that no warning was given in the case of the infringement found in the present proceedings
it is neither a disproportionate nor a dissuasive sanction and it is therefore necessary to impose a fine.
The Authority considers it necessary to impose a fine, as the Debtor in the period under review 2019.
until 26 November, no data protection regulations will apply to camera recordings
provided that it did not take the necessary organizational measures to ensure that the
the exercise of the rights of the persons concerned is ensured in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR, which has resulted in the
Debtor has violated the Customer's right to access or restrict data processing.
Furthermore, the data management regulations of the Debtor established on 26 November 2019 are still not in force
complies with the provisions of the GDPR, disproportionately restricts access to those concerned, and
the right to restrict data processing, so that the measures taken at that time are still inadequate,
as they do not ensure the exercise of the rights of the data subjects in accordance with the requirements of the GDPR.
In view of this, the Authority Pursuant to Section 61 (1) (a), they are contained in the operative part
and in this decision obliged the Debtor to pay a data protection fine.
The amount of the fine was determined by the Authority acting in accordance with its statutory discretion.
Depending on the nature of the infringement, the maximum amount of the fine that may be imposed under Article 83 (5) of the GDPR
EUR 20 000 000 or, in the case of the Debtor, the previous financial year in full
up to 4% of world market turnover, whichever is the higher.
Depending on the nature of the breach, in breach of the principle of privacy by design and by default, the
the maximum amount of the fine under Article 83 (4) (a) of the GDPR is EUR 10 000 000 or
not more than 2% of the total worldwide turnover in the preceding business year, whichever is the higher.
In imposing the fine, the Authority took into account the following factor as an aggravating circumstance:
-

the Customer's request to the data subject was not properly processed because the Debtor a
data protection regulations when it becomes applicable - operated by it
camera system - did not have at all: the notifier wanted to do so in several forums
to exercise his rights as a data subject, however, none of the Debtor’s employees recognized that the applicant
request is considered to be a data protection exercise of the data subject - committed by the Debtor
an infringement is considered to have been committed with serious negligence on that basis [Article 83 (2) GDPR
paragraph (b)]

-

during the development of the regulations in force by the Debtor since 26 November 2019
The organizational measures taken disproportionately impede the access or
the right to restrict data processing [Article 83 (2) (a) GDPR];

14

-

the Debtor is fully liable both for the breach committed against the Client and
and for the development of a restrictive practice that has existed since then, as it is under Article 25
it would have been his responsibility to take action [Article 83 (2) (d) GDPR];

-

the Debtor is also subject to extremely serious negligence in relation to the data processing in question due to the fact that
despite the order of magnitude more affected by the larger number of its stores
should have prepared for a request for the exercise of a right, its organizational arrangements are still such
nor were they capable of identifying and processing applications, and it can therefore reasonably be assumed that
the right of access was not exercised properly not only in the specific case examined, but also at other times
[Article 83 (2) (b) GDPR].

In imposing the fine, the Authority took into account the following factors as mitigating circumstances:
-

the Debtor offered the applicant thirty thousand forints to alleviate the damage suffered by the applicant
[Article 83 (2) (c) GDPR];

-

the Debtor already facilitates lawful data processing during the official control
has taken action, so in circular 66 he drew his staff's attention to read the
prepared a camera brochure for customers in order to be aware of the
the rights conferred on data subjects by the GDPR [Article 83 (2) (f) GDPR];

-

the Debtor has complied to the extent of its cooperation with the Authority
obligation to admit the infringement itself [Article 83 (2) GDPR
(f)].

In imposing fines, the Authority took into account the following other factors:
-

during the period under review, the Debtor identified a single stakeholder application, thus, according to its statement
committed a single infringement in the processing of the applications concerned, but
The Authority did not accept this statement of the Debtor [Article 83 (2) (k) GDPR];

-

the processing did not affect special categories of personal data [Article 83 (2) GDPR
paragraph (g)];

-

the fine imposed will be able to achieve its purpose if its amount - the Obliged sales
relative to its turnover - appreciable;

-

net sales revenue according to the Debtor's latest published financial statements for 2018
Was HUF 33,645,000,000, the amount of the data protection fine imposed is the net sales
0.0594% of its turnover.

The Authority did not consider Article 83 (2) (e), (h), (i) and (j) of the GDPR to be relevant for the imposition of fines.
as they cannot be interpreted in the context of the specific case.
In setting the fine, the Authority did not consider it relevant that the data processing practice under investigation
“Not a central instruction” but was the result of an “erroneous individual decision” as the Authority
in his opinion, the Debtor is also liable in this case.
ARC. Other issues:
Infotv. Pursuant to Section 60 (1), in order to enforce the right to the protection of personal data
the Authority may initiate ex officio data protection proceedings. The data protection authority procedure is general
CL of 2016 on administrative order. (hereinafter: the Act) shall apply
with the additions specified in the Infotv.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 103 (1) of the Act, ex officio proceedings procedures initiated upon request
The relevant provisions of Art. 103–105. With the exceptions contained in §.

15

Infotv. Pursuant to Section 38 (2) and (2a), the Authority is responsible for the protection of personal data, and
monitoring the exercise of the right of access to data in the public interest and in the public interest
and promoting. The powers of the task set out in the General Data Protection Decree for the supervisory authority with regard to legal entities under the jurisdiction of Hungary shall be exercised by the General Data Protection Authority.
as defined in the Decree and the Information Act. The powers of the Authority shall be:
covers the whole country.
Infotv. 75 / A. § of the General Data Protection Regulation
shall exercise its powers in accordance with the principle of proportionality, in particular by:
legislation on the processing of personal data or a binding act of the European Union
for the first time in the event of a breach of the rules laid down in
in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation, in particular the controller or processor
shall be warned.
The decision is otherwise based on Ákr. Sections 80 and 81 shall apply.
The Ákr. § 112 and § 116 (1) and § 114 (1)
there is a right of appeal through an administrative lawsuit.
The rules of administrative litigation are laid down in Act I of 2017 on the Procedure for Administrative Litigation (hereinafter:
Kp.). A Kp. Pursuant to Section 12 (2) a) against the decision of the Authority
administrative lawsuit falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the lawsuit is subject to the Kp. Pursuant to Section 13 (11) of the Capital
The General Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction.
Act CXXX of 2016 on Civil Procedure. Act (hereinafter: Pp.) - the Kp. Section 26 (1)
applicable pursuant to § 72 of the General Court in a lawsuit falling within the jurisdiction of the General Court
representation is mandatory. Kp. Pursuant to Section 39 (6), unless otherwise provided by law, the application
has no suspensory effect on the entry into force of the administrative act.
A Kp. Section 29 (1) and with this regard Pp. Applicable according to § 604, electronic administration
and Act CCXXII of 2015 on the general rules of trust services. Pursuant to Section 9 (1) (b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (hereinafter: the Administration Act), the legal representative of the customer for electronic communication
obliged.
The time and place of the submission of the application is Section 39 (1). Holding the hearing
Information on the possibility to apply for It is based on § 77 (1) - (2). The administrative lawsuit
of the XCIII of 1990 on Fees. Act (hereinafter: Itv.) 45 / A. § (1)
Define. From the advance payment of the fee, the Itv. Section 59 (1) and Section 62 (1) h)
exempts the party initiating the proceedings.
The Ákr. Pursuant to Section 135, the debtor is obliged to pay a late payment supplement corresponding to the statutory interest
to pay if he fails to meet his payment obligation on time.
Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code 6:48. § (1) in the case of a debt
the debtor shall, from the date of the delay, on the first day of the calendar half-year affected by the delay
is required to pay default interest equal to the applicable central bank base rate.
Budapest, September 2020 "

"
Dr. Attila Péterfalvi
President
c. professor

