The Danish Data Protection Authority recommends a fine of DKK 1.2 million for the taxi company. DKK
Date: 25-03-2019
Decision
Private companies
Police report
Supervision / self-management case
Basic principles
The Danish Data Protection Authority has reported Taxi 4x35 to the police and fined the company DKK 1.2 million. DKK for a violation of the rules in the data protection regulation.
Taxi 4x35 has been fined for failing to delete customer information. Just under 9 million Taxi journeys that can be attributed to individuals have been stored without a legitimate purpose, the Danish Data Protection Authority assesses. This is the first time that the Danish Data Protection Authority has recommended a fine under the rules of the data protection regulation (also known as GDPR).
8,873,333 personally attributable taxi trips
The case stems from the fact that in autumn 2018 the Danish Data Protection Authority paid an inspection visit to Taxi 4x35, where, among other things, was looked at whether the taxi company has set deadlines for deleting the customers' information - and whether the deadlines are adhered to.
According to Taxi 4x35, the information used for the customer's ordering and handling of taxi journeys is anonymised after two years, as there is no longer a need to identify the customer.
However, it is only the customer's name that is deleted after the two years - but not the customer's telephone number. Information about the customer's taxi journeys (including collection and delivery addresses) can therefore continue to be attributed to a natural person via the telephone number, which is only deleted after five years.
At the time of the inspection visit, information was registered on 8,873,333 personally attributable taxi journeys that were older than two years.
The Danish Data Protection Authority's assessment
The reason why the phone number is not deleted, according to the taxi company, is that the number is the key to the system's database and is therefore necessary in relation to the company's product and business development.
In the Danish Data Protection Authority's view, however, you cannot set a deletion deadline that is three years longer than necessary, simply because the company's system makes it difficult to comply with the rules in the data protection regulation.
"When we have chosen to recommend a fine in this case, it is because there are very large amounts of personal data that have been stored without a legitimate purpose. One of the basic principles in the field of data protection is that you may only process information that you need - and when you no longer need it, it must be deleted immediately," says Data Protection Authority director Cristina Angela Gulisano.
The next step in the case
In most European countries, the national data supervisory authorities can issue administrative fines themselves, but the rules are different in Estonia and Denmark.
Here it works in such a way that the Data Protection Authority reports the data controller to the police after clarifying and assessing the case. The police then investigate whether there is a basis for laying a charge, etc., and finally a possible fine will be decided by a court.
If you want to know more
You can read the opinion on the matter here.
You can read the Norwegian Data Protection Authority's guidance text on deletion here.
Journalists can contact the Danish Data Protection Authority's press officer Anders Due (40 41 30 23 / ad@datatilsynet.dk)