Results of the 100th data protection conference

Press Release – Page 1/4
Munich, November 30, 2020

The Conference of Independent Data Protection Authorities
of the federal and state governments (Data Protection Conference – DSK).
on November 25th and 26th, 2020 via video on their 100th
meeting since its inception.

The conference dealt, among other things, with the question of
data protection-compliant use of Windows 10 (version
"Enterprise"), with the German EU Council Presidency
initiative taken to soften end-to-end
Encryption for the benefit of security authorities and
Intelligence services, with the legal design of the
Telecommunication inventory data inquiry, with initiatives for
Centralization of data protection supervision and with the in
Germany still pending implementation of the
"ePrivacy" directive (RL 2002/58/EG).

In detail:

- Again, the conference dealt with both the

Telemetry capabilities of Microsoft Windows 10, version
"Enterprise", as well as with those through Microsoft to MS
Office 365 announced improvements to the
data protection. To the telemetry functions had a
DSK working group in three test scenarios before
found that those responsible when using the
Enterprise version use the "Security" telemetry level
and contractual, technical or organizational
need to ensure that no transmission

Your personal rights - our mission

Press release from November 30, 2020 – page 2/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 

personal telemetry data to Microsoft
takes place. With regard to MS Office 365, the DSK
stay in touch with Microsoft. By both
objects, the DSK attaches importance to the
Taking into account the judgment of the European
Court of Justice on the transfer of personal data
to third countries of July 16, 2020 (C-311/18) ("Schrems II").

- Clearly the DSK rejects demands for access

Security authorities and secret services on the
encrypted communication in messenger services and
of private communication. In a letter dated 25
November 2020 resolution indicates that
that the hollowing out of encryption solutions, such as
them in the Council of the European Union in the draft resolution
No. 12143/1/20 of November 6, 2020 "Security through
Encryption and security despite encryption"
is suggested would be counterproductive and through
Criminals and terrorists are easily bypassed
could. A safe and trustworthy
Encryption, on the other hand, is an essential requirement
for resilient digitization in business and
Administration. companies have to face up to
can protect economic espionage. citizens
Citizens must use it safely and with integrity
digital administrative services can trust.
Encryption is also a key tool for the
Data transfer to unsafe third countries. The "Schrems
II” judgment of the European Court of Justice has that again
made clear.

-

In the interests of legal certainty, the DSK is also appealing
a further resolution to the federal legislature,

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 



Press release from November 30, 2020 – page 3/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 

finally the specifications of the Federal Constitutional Court of
May 2020 to design the manual
to implement inventory data disclosure procedures. The
Court had recognized that both the transmission of
Data through telecom service providers as well
retrieval by authorized bodies (e.g.
public prosecutor's offices) in each case a proportionate and
require a standard-clear basis ("double-door model").
The current version of § 113
Telecommunications Act and the retrieval standards
Pages of recipient circles are sufficient for these
requirements not. The conference calls for
Federal and state legislators are enforcing the manual
Information procedures for security authorities and
Intelligence services conform to the constitution as quickly as possible
to design.

- The Conference also calls on the legislator to

finally the ePrivacy Directive of the European
Communities from 2002 (RL 2002/58/EG)
fully and in accordance with the data protection
Basic Regulation of 2018 into German law
implement. According to Art. 5 Para. 3 ePrivacy Directive required
there is an active informed consent of the user in
Principle particularly when the person responsible
“Cookies” sets. website operators and other stakeholders,
who use their services in relation to, among other things, “cookies”
lawfully, need legal clarity
and security.

The DSK also clearly opposes claims
a centralization of data protection supervision in non-
public area.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Press release from November 30, 2020 – page 4/4
The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection informed
 
 
 
 
 
Other topics of the 100th DSK included the
Improving cooperation in the European
 
Data Protection Board (EDPB) and the future functioning of the
DSK.

Prof. Dr. Thomas Petri

 

The Bavarian State Commissioner for Data Protection controls the Bavarian
public bodies compliance with data protection regulations. It's from Bavarian
Elected to the state parliament, independent and not bound by instructions from anyone.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

