1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00383/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated June 18, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R. with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The grounds on which the claim is based are
succinctly the following:

"The President of the Community of Owners has given my personal data-
them, through WhatsApp broadcast to a group of the Community of owners
(...), reporting the placement of garbage in an inappropriate place” (folio nº 1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Photographs Annex I) that

confirm what has been stated.

SECOND: On 07/08/20, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the party
demanded so that it can allege in law what it deems appropriate.

THIRD: On 08/27/20, a written statement was received from the accused by
means of which the following is communicated:

“Regarding the information on the alleged extraction and dissemination of images
reports of the complainant via WhatsApp is a "bad faith" by the same, obtained by the cir-
closed room for recording video-surveillance cameras installed in the COMMUNITY
DAD OF OWNERS R.R.R. (…)

That one of the purposes of the processing of personal data re-
caught in the video-surveillance cameras is to corroborate that good use is made by
part of the community members of the common areas and among them the deposit area stands out.
plant waste sites, as well as preventing people from outside the Community from acting
give in to that area”

In short, it has not been proven that the revealed images have been disseminated.
distributed throughout the community, but to a very small and limited group of owners, with the
sole identification purpose exposed (...)

That in the images that have allegedly been communicated without consent
affected, it is impossible to carry out a precise identification of the
person allegedly affected nor, and we consider this (...) of the type of conduct
that he was doing, so in no way can it be inferred that there was
illicit dissemination of personal images.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

Therefore, the presence of the good faith of the Community is observed, since this
would have restricted to such an extent the use of the images as it did NOT proceed
finally report these behaviors to the competent authorities, so
the principle of limitation of the collected data was complied with.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, even understanding that we are in the field
of use of images subject to current regulations on data protection and
that the facts denounced deserve to be considered in attention to an alleged
dissemination without consent, we have sufficiently accredited that the treatment has
been lawful, in consideration and compliance with the conditions established in art.
6 RGPD, and that the complainant would have given his consent for the treatment of
your personal data for the purpose for which they were used.

For all these reasons, I REQUEST the AEPD to consider this document as submitted, together with
with the documentation that accompanies it … expressly requesting the FILE of
the actions and (...) that this is considered in its case MILD, also determining
so that the sanction is in its minimum degree, in attention to the concurrence of attendees
clarified in previous points”.

FOURTH: On March 3, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for Pro-
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, in accordance with
the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Procedure
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPA-
CAP), for the alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: On 04/06/21, allegations were received from the representative of the
Community of owners stating succinctly the following:

“With all due respect, we do not find sufficient justification for having
committed any infraction, since the account of the facts contained in the proposal for
resolution only shows that there has been a use of the images of the
system of video-surveillance cameras (...) as such images were broadcast in a
WhatsApp group of neighbors of the community itself with an exclusive purpose
identify the alleged perpetrator of "irregular" conduct in common areas.

…it is appropriate to report on the causes that motivated the denounced facts, and
Thus, in consideration of the previous points, several conclusions are reached that are not
it seems that they have been taken into account in the motion for a resolution (...)

-That the incident had its direct origin in the area of compliance with a
purpose of video-surveillance, that is, to denounce the misuse of the deposit area of
vegetable waste that is intended to be avoided and controlled by the community (...)

-That the images that “allegedly” WERE COMMUNICATED WITHOUT
KNOWLEDGE of the affected, it was on the other hand impossible to carry out a
precise identification of the affected person, much less the type of conduct
that he was carrying out, so in no way can it be inferred that there was
illicit dissemination of personal images.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

As a corollary of the foregoing, it follows that, on the part of the Community of
owners, the necessary measures have been adopted at all times to avoid the
production of incidents, repeatedly informing all members of the
Community of the use of personal data of which it is
responsible for the treatment (the Community of owners)

In consideration of the foregoing, we understand that there has been no infringement
any in terms of data protection likely to be sanctioned by
the AEPD (...)

In anything, it is not possible to identify, if we take the images
captured individually, to the person whose images have been captured, and
allegedly misused.

For all these reasons, we ask the AEPD to consider the document presented,
serves to admit it, and considers it presented for the appropriate purposes, Allegations to the
Resolution Proposal (...) the Archive of the proceedings is Decreed (...)

SIXTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
process.

SEVENTH: On 05/28/21, a "Proposed Resolution" was issued in which
violation of art. 5.1 b) RGPD, having proceeded to spread the
images obtained from the video-surveillance camera system in a group of
WhatsApp, offense typified in art. 83.5 a) RGPD, proposing a sanction of
Warning, after assessing the circumstances of the case.

EIGHTH: On 06/17/21 allegations are received from the Community of owners-
El Pichón- arguing the following:

“The contested resolution proposal supports its inadmissibility on two
paragraphs of explanatory text, after exposing and developing a series of facts
complete and concepts consigned in the data protection regulations.

Regardless of the defenselessness suffered by such an act, taking into account
that the Agency itself recognizes that the purpose of the processed images was limited
appointment, and that, furthermore, no person was identified in the WhatsApp messages.
App, the instructor has interpreted the totality of the circumstances and facts communicated
two from a prism of lack of motivation and inconsistency with respect to the allegations
previously presented, since until that paragraph, we can easily
prove the use of generic legal constructions and not adjusted to the specific case.

That said, having no evidence whatsoever to prove that, indeed, the organ-
decision-maker has carried out the analysis of the documentary provided that alludes to having
practiced, it is inferred that none of these tests has even been reviewed or had
into account when qualifying and subsuming the facts denounced by the neighbor de-
complainant within the infractions foreseen by the current regulations on the subject of
Data Protection.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

Thus, based on the aforementioned circumstances, it is obligatory to conclude
that there has been a procedural defect in the course of the claim raised, that
It has also been decisive in the defenselessness that has occurred to us (article
48.2 Law 39/2015).

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and of the document

information in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

First. On 06/18/2020, a claim is received from the claimant through the
which translates as the main fact the following:

"The President of the Community of Owners has given my personal data-
them, through WhatsApp broadcast to a group of the Community of owners
(...), reporting the placement of garbage in an inappropriate place” (folio nº 1).

Together with the claim, it provides documentary evidence (Photographs Annex I) that

confirm what has been stated.

Second. It is accredited as the main responsible COMMUNITY OF PROPERTY
TARIOS R.R.R.

Third. It is accredited that the images obtained from the video-surveillance system
were disseminated through a WhatsApp Group in order to identify the
main responsible for "irregular" conduct in the Community of owners.

Fourth. It is accredited that the system has an informative poster(s) in the vi-
possible indicating that it is a video-monitored area.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

Before going into the substance of the matter, it is convenient to assess the "complaints" put forward
by the party complained against, where it incorrectly speaks "resolution proposal"
combated solution supports its inadmissibility” when it confirmed the inadmissibility
fraction described for improper use of the images obtained from the video-vi-
surveillance, without any transfer being made to the competent authority, but to a Group
WhatsApp, which admits little discussion regarding the reality of the facts.

The defendant's arguments focus on minimizing the conduct, as well as
this aspect that is taken into account by this body, when proposing in its
moment a sanction of Warning, taking into account these circumstances

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

liability, which otherwise would have ended with a sanction
of a pecuniary nature of a considerable amount.

The respondent party complains of a certain "copy and paste" that on the other hand does not
specific in which paragraphs such action has been carried out, nor to what extent have they produced
the helplessness that it intends to argue, nor does it indicate how they deviate from the
facts, beyond a "subjective" assessment.

Contrary to what has been stated, even articles of the Property Law are cited.
Horizontal, to seek a "legal" accommodation to the conduct of the President of the
mentioned Community, even ignoring the fact that there is no legal precept
that allows the “arbitrary use” of system images, through their diffusion
sion in a Group of certain WhatsApp privacy.

The mention of Judgments of the National High Court far from the argued “co-
pia y pas” support the “proposal” for a Resolution based on established and reiterated criteria
by the jurisdictional bodies, thus motivating the pronouncement of
this body, precisely to avoid a response away from the "facts" object
of denunciation, which we insist do not admit discussion.

This body cannot share the complainant's complaint of lack of analysis
sis of their arguments, since they have been analyzed, leading all to
justify the use of images outside the cases permitted by law, even
that the purpose was to accredit the alleged person responsible for an uncivil or criminal behavior
zás constituting an administrative infraction.

In the allegations dated 04/06/21, the facts are explained by the respondent
“misuse of the plant residue deposit area” by an owner of
the Community, which on the other hand are not "alleged" as asserted but real
because the images obtained were disseminated through a WhatsApp Group, pro-
yielding even to take the data of the vehicle.

“…in any case, the license plate that appears photographed is isolated.

gives…"

Therefore, the facts do not admit any discussion, nor are the arguments
grumbles distort the opposite, especially when they are not denied, being the rest of
arguments aspects valued by this Agency as mitigating circumstances
which were reflected in the proposed resolution, which corresponds to
the literal of the last paragraph of the FJV of this resolution.

The claim confuses the existence of consented authorization in the installation
tion of the cameras, which may have been legally authorized by the group
of the neighbors, with the way of using their images, disseminating-
through a WhatsApp Group, when the data protection regulations do not
leaves no doubt in the provision of the corresponding competent authority
tooth, needless to say is not a set of neighbors (as).

As verified in the database of this Agency, the allegations made
The cases are dated 08/27/20 (first allegations), 03/26/21 (second allegations),

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

tions), 04/06/21 (third allegations) and 06/17/21 (fourth and last allegations), all
all of which together with the documentation provided have been subject to analysis by the
Procedure instructor.

In the last brief of allegations, it only provides a partial copy of the Act of
date 09/29/20 by which a new Board of Directors of the COMMUNITY is constituted
OF OWNERS R.R.R. (Doc no. 1).

The respondent is reminded that the lack of an informed cartel is not being prosecuted.
(infraction of art. 13 RGPD Doc. nº 1), nor the support of the Ownership Board.
to the installation of the cameras (doc. nº 7), so it goes without saying that it was not necessary
necessary to enter into assessing issues not related to the "facts" that are the object of the presentation.
procedure, no matter how much it reiterates them in the various briefs presented.

So the proposed resolution was consistent with the "theme decided"
dendi” (main issue) without being able to speak of defenselessness about the lack of mention.
tion on implicit issues or that are not subject to prosecution (vgr. SAN
12/05/02).

Lastly, the second Request of this document is not evaluated, since
not having finished the procedure, which is remembered is with the Resolution of the
same, it is not possible to file or admit any appeal subsidiarily, remembering the
consequences of articulating the same with "recklessness" influencing aspects that are
mind resolved in a motivated manner by this Agency.

In such a way that the complaint put forward is dismissed for the reasons stated,
remembering in the future that there is no defenselessness, since the "facts" are clear (by not denying
claimed), has been able to argue in law what it has deemed appropriate, va-
freely performing the same by the instructor of the procedure, without specifying
any mention beyond a generic mention of articles 47-48 Law 39/2015 is
carried out in relation to defenselessness, nor is it clear to this Agency the document
moment(s) that has not been valued in relation to the facts denounced.

III

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim of date of entry into
this AEPD 06/18/20 through which the following is transferred as the main event:
tea:

"The President of the Community of Owners has given my personal data-
them, through WhatsApp broadcast to a group of the Community of owners
(...), reporting the placement of garbage in an inappropriate place” (folio nº 1).

The facts are concretized in the use of the images of the camera system.
video-surveillance cameras of the Community of Owners, images that were di-
merged into a WhatsApp group of neighbors from the community itself with the purpose
exclusively to identify the alleged perpetrator of "irregular" conduct in communal areas.
nes.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

The images generated by a security system constitute a character data
personal, so its treatment is subject to data protection regulations.

The President is one of the governing bodies of the Community of owners, together
with the Board of owners, vice presidents (if any according to
the statutes), the Secretary and the Administrator (art. 13 LPH).

Despite the lack of clarity in this regard, being a matter of doctrinal debate
Finally, the President of the Community is a qualified manager of the same, co-
responding “a) Ensure the good regimen of the house, its facilities and services
vices, and for this purpose make the appropriate warnings and warnings to the holders
lares.” (art. 20 LPH).

The installation of video cameras in a community of neighbors must be done

with the aim of avoiding vandalism or access by people outside the farm.

Since the installation of surveillance cameras collides with a fundamental right
fundamental, its installation must be done respecting the principle of proportionality. I know
It is an undetermined legal principle that the Constitutional Court explained in the
Judgment 207/1996 as "a common and constant requirement for the constitutionality
of any restrictive measure of fundamental rights.

Article 22 section 3 of the LOPDGDD (LO 3/2018) provides the following:

“The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its collection.
tion, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, goods or facilities. In such a case, the
Images must be made available to the competent authority in a
maximum period of seventy-two hours from the knowledge of the existence
recording. The obligation to block will not apply to these treatments.
envisaged in article 32 of this organic law” (* the bold type belongs to this or-
ganism).

The art. 5.1 b) RGPD provides: “Personal data will be:

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in-
public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not considered
will be incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

So, from the behavior described, it can be inferred that the diffusion of the images to
through a WhatsApp group of the Community does not seem the most suitable way to
the identification of the presumed person responsible for an "irregular" conduct in the Co-
community of owners, this being a means that does not allow a rigorous control in
data processing.

The regulations in force are characterized by strict “confidentiality” in the persons
responsible in its case in the access to the images, which is limited to the responsible
ble authorized by the Community of owners, without allowing the transfer to persons

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

unauthorized, as would be the case of the rest of the community members of the property, assuming
do even the risk of further dissemination outside the WhatsApp group.

IV

In accordance with the objective evidence available in this proceeding,
sanctioning procedure, it is considered that the defendant (President Community of Pro-
owners) proceeded to spread the images of the defendant in a WhatsApp group
restricted in order to discover the alleged perpetrator of certain behaviors
"irregular" that had been produced in it.

In these cases, in which the purpose of the processing involves the identification of
persons, it can be assumed that the data controller or any other person
involved has or may have means that "can be reasonably used",
to identify the interested party. In fact, holding that natural persons are not identical
identifiable, when the purpose of the treatment is precisely to identify them, it would be a
flagrant contradiction.

“This is especially pertinent in the field of video surveillance, in which
controllers often claim that identification is only
occurs in a small percentage of cases and that, therefore, until it occurs
duces identification in those few cases, no personal data is really processed.
nal. As the purpose of video surveillance is, however, to identify persons
that appear in the video images in all those cases in which that identity
notification is considered necessary by the data controller, it must be considered
consider the use of the system itself for the processing of data on identified persons.
even if some of the people filmed are not identifiable in practice.
AC"

In the case at hand, the fact that the person allegedly responsible for the conduct that
were intended to reprimand was not identified by the group of neighbors (as) of the Group
of WhatsApp does not exclude the "processing of data" associated with an identifiable person,
Therefore, the main argument put forward by the defendant must be dismissed.
gives.

The images obtained should have been made available to the Authority
competent for the purpose of carrying out the investigative work deemed necessary.
arias, not corresponding to the President of the Community to supply the power of the
themselves when prosecuting the facts or investigating the alleged perpetrator of the same.
mos.

Article 22 section 3 of the LOPDGDD provides the following:

“The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its collection.
tion, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, goods or facilities. In such a case, the
Images must be made available to the competent authority within a period
maximum of seventy-two hours from the knowledge of the existence of
the recording"

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

The known facts constitute an infraction, attributable to the defendant, for
violation of the content of art. 5.1 b) GDPR.

Article 83.5 RGPD provides the following:

v

“Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, alternatively,
being from a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume
overall annual total turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
greater amount:

a)

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

SAW

Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83 of the RGPD, the aforementioned Regulation provides
ne in your art. 58.2 b) the possibility of sanctioning with a warning, in relation to what
stated in Recital 148:

“In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than a sanction.
tion by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. You must, however, pay
Special attention is paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infraction, its character
intentional ter, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered, to the
degree of responsibility or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
the control authority has become aware of the infraction, to the fulfillment of
measures ordered against the person in charge or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance.”

In the present case, the absence of previous infringements, the
intentionality of the conduct, given that what he intended was to reprimand a conduct
"uncivic", as well as the little impact on the diffusion of the images when limited to a
very small group of people and the absence of any benefit in the "treatment
of the same to propose a warning sanction.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the COMMUNITY OF PROPRIETORS R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1,
for an infringement of Article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
RGPD, a sanction of WARNING.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
R.R.R.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

