REMINDER

 

 "Digitization of (university) schools"

 

 

- September 19, 2022 -
The TLfDI invites you !

When? September 19, 2022 from 10:00 a.m. to approx. 4:00 p.m

Where? in the Augustinian monastery in Erfurt

 

The corona pandemic brought it to light mercilessly: schools and
Universities live in a world that doesn't have enough digital realities
has points of contact. Pupils, students, teachers and lecturers
can at best use smartphones and tablets, but often don't know what
these devices as well as the downloaded apps with personal data
can and do arrange.
 
What happens to the data during video conferences? Must or can
School administrations or universities as those responsible for data protection
know all this? Who educates and trains teachers to train students in
to be able to teach in the digital world? Should media literacy a
be an exam-relevant compulsory subject with IT content? Why does it fizzle out?
Digital pact in the federal states? Why is there no certified school
Software? What problems does the use of private devices raise (bring your
own device)?
 

And: Have students ever heard of artificial intelligence?

 
As speakers, e.g. the State Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education,
dr Jens Brandenburg for a word of welcome, Andreas Trump (Principal Herder-
Gymnasium Nordhausen), Dr. Anja Hagen (Alliance for Education), Marianne Voigt
(Managing Director of bettermarks.com GmbH), Dario Schramm (former
Federal student spokesman), Prof. Dr. Lin-Klitzing (Federal Chair of the German
Philology Association) and Beth Havinga (connect edTech).
 
                                                Cordial invitation!
 

      dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

www.tlfdi.de

 

Erfurt, September 16, 2022
Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

