

Bonn, January 19, 2022


Press release 2/2022


EDPB adopts guidelines on the right to information
On Tuesday, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) published guidelines on the rights of data subjects under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The focus is on the right to information, with which those affected can find out, among other things, which data companies and authorities have stored about them.



Source: ©mediaphotos; one

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, welcomes the joint guidelines: The right to information is the fundamental right of data subjects and is frequently exercised by citizens. However, the corresponding article of the GDPR alone leaves a great deal of room for interpretation. The EDPB is now ensuring more clarity and uniformity here.
In particular, the guidelines specify which data is covered by the right to information and that data subjects are generally to be provided with a copy of the data and not just a summary
is. In addition, those responsible for data processing must take appropriate measures to identify persons behind requests for information so that no unauthorized third parties can access the data. On the other hand, no higher hurdles may be set up than required for identification.
Likewise, a request for information may not be rejected solely with reference to a high processing effort. The motivation behind a request for information is also not a criterion for fulfilling the right to information. The guidelines provide additional information and examples of the time intervals at which data subjects can assert their right to information again against a company or an authority without their request being rejected as excessive or being subject to a fee.
The EDPB will conduct a public consultation on the guidelines.
The guidelines will be available shortly on the EDPB website.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











