Press Release: No. 06/2021
Magdeburg, November 23, 2021

 
L a n g e c o r i p e r fo r d a ta protec tion

 
New information package: home office - but safe!
 
The reintroduction of the obligation to work from home as part of the fight against the pandemic
drives and authorities face challenges. Can family members have access to the personal
have sun-related data? The data can be stored on the private hard drive
will? Can I print my work at home? Can printouts be disposed of with household waste?
What to do in the event of a data protection incident? Employers and employees need to know
what is permitted under data protection law in the home office and what is not.

The State Commissioner for Data Protection in Saxony-Anhalt therefore refers to the new
fopaket "Home office" on his homepage. This information package contains, among other things,
wise and a checklist for the implementation of the data protection requirements for the
Working in the home office. This information is supplemented by information from the Federal Criminal
minalamtes (BKA) and the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI).
technical security, in particular on the subject of cybercrime, i.e. attacks on
companies and authorities from the Internet.

"Compliance with data protection and technical security precautions are basic
Suspensions for working from home. Anyone who makes mistakes here not only endangers them
data of its customers, employees or citizens, but also the work and action
ability of his company or the authority,” said Albert Cohaus, who is responsible for the tasks and
exercising the powers of the state commissioner. “But working from home is also a question of
cybersecurity. An increasing number of cyber-attacks keeps authorities and companies
company lame. Unsecured access from the home office increases the risk that a
such an attack on the technical infrastructure is successful and to maximize the damage
leads," explained Albert Cohaus, "Use our advice and the information from the safety
authorities to avoid data protection problems and the dangers from the
prevent internet. Protect yourself, your technology and your data, so does your work
can continue safely under pandemic conditions.”

You can find the "Home office" information package on our homepage at https://datenschutz.sach-
sen-anhalt.de/information/infopakete/infopaket-homeoffice/.

 

Imprint:
 
State representative for data protection in Saxony-Anhalt
 
Responsible:
Mr. Albert Cohaus as representative in office
Director of the office
 
Leiterstrasse 9, 39104 Magdeburg
Telephone: 0391 81803 - 0
Fax: 0391 81803 - 33
Email: poststelle@lfd.sachsen-anhalt.de

