   

 

 

 

2023 Coordinated Enforcement Action  

Designation and Position of Data Protection Officers 

Adopted on 16 January 2024  

 

1 

 
Table of contents 
 
INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................... 6 
1 
BACKGROUND AND METHODOLOGY .................................................................................. 8 
2 
Legal background ........................................................................................................ 8 
2.1 
Methodology ................................................................................................................ 9 
2.2 
SURVEY FINDINGS ............................................................................................................. 12 
3 
The DPO in the organisation ..................................................................................... 12 
3.1 
The DPOs profile ....................................................................................................... 13 
3.2 
4 
CHALLENGES IDENTIFIED DURING THE CEF ACTION AND RECOMMENDATIONS / POINTS 
OF ATTENTION ......................................................................................................................... 14 
Absence of designation of a DPO even if mandatory ................................................ 14 
4.1 
4.2 
Insufficient resources allocated to DPOs .................................................................. 15 
Insufficient expert knowledge and training of DPOs ................................................ 18 
4.3 
4.4 
DPOs not being fully or explicitly entrusted with the tasks required under the 
GDPR  19 
4.4.1  DPOs not being given key roles as required under the GDPR .................................. 19 
Lack of systematic involvement of the DPO within organisations ........................... 22 
4.4.2 
4.5 
Conflict of interests and lack of independence of the DPO ....................................... 24 
Conflict of interests due to conflicting roles or tasks ................................................ 24 
4.5.1 
4.5.2 
Lack of independence due to instructions received by DPOs or contractual or 
budgetary setup ........................................................................................................................ 26 
Lack of reporting by the DPO to the organisations’ highest management level....... 27 
4.6 
4.7 
Further guidance from SAs ........................................................................................ 28 
4.8 
Conclusion on the levels of awareness and compliance ............................................ 29 
5  ACTIONS TAKEN BY SAS ..................................................................................................... 31 
5.1 
Enforcement actions .................................................................................................. 31 
Guidelines .................................................................................................................. 33 
5.2 
5.3 
Conferences and trainings ......................................................................................... 35 
Study and research .................................................................................................... 36 
5.4 
5.5 
Other forms of support............................................................................................... 37 
CONCLUSION ..................................................................................................................... 37 
6 
 
 

 

Adopted 

 

5 

1  INTRODUCTION 
 
In  October  2020,  the  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  decided  to  set  up  a  Coordinated 
Enforcement Framework (‘CEF’)1. The CEF is a key action of the EDPB under the second pillar of its 
2021-2023  Strategy2,  together  with  the  creation  of  a  Support  Pool  of  Experts  (‘SPE’),  aiming  at 
streamlining  enforcement  and  cooperation  among  supervisory  authorities  (collectively  ‘SAs’,  or 
individually ‘SA’).  
 
The EDPB selected in September 2022 the topic of ‘the Designation and Position of Data Protection 
Officers’ for its 2023 Coordinated Enforcement Framework. The EDPB decided to prioritise this topic 
given the position of Data Protection Officers (‘DPOs’) under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (‘GDPR’)3 as 
intermediaries between SAs, individuals and the business units of an organisation. More specifically, 
this topic was chosen taking into account: 
 

(i) 

(ii) 

the fact that the role of DPOs is crucial in ensuring that data protection law is applied and 
complied  with  within  organisations  since  the  DPO  is  a  ‘key  player  in  the  new  data 
governance system’4;  and 
the  fact  that,  under  the  GDPR,  the  DPO  is  a  person  with  expert  knowledge  of  data 
protection law and practices. By bridging the gap between EU data protection law and its 
practical  application,  DPOs  help  to  promote  the  effective  protection  of  individuals’ 
fundamental right to data protection. 

 
Even though designating a DPO was already an obligation for the EU institutions under the previous 
legal  framework5  (and  now  under  Regulation  2018/1725  or  the  ‘EUDPR’6),  the  DPO  was  a  new 
requirement introduced into the GDPR7 and,  before the GDPR, many Member States’ laws had no 
provisions on mandatory DPO designation. Despite this, in 2023, an IAPP research indicated that more 
than 700,000 organisations have registered DPOs across the European Economic Area (EEA) under the 
GDPR8. 
 

                                                 
1 EDPB Document on Coordinated Enforcement Framework under Regulation 2016/679 (EDPB, 20 October 
2020), https://edpb.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/file1/edpb documents 20201020 coordinatedenforce
mentframework en.pdf.  
2 EDPB Strategy 2021-2023, adopted on 15 December 2020.  
3 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection 
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and 
repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation (OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p.1). 
4 Guidelines on DPOs (as defined below), page 5.  
5 Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the 
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and 
bodies and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1–22). 
6 Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the 
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, 
offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and 
Decision No 1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39). As regards the EDPS, any references to 
‘organisations’, ‘controllers/processors’ and - depending on the context - ‘Member States’ should be 
understood as referring to the European Union Institutions, bodies, offices and agencies . In addition, as 
regards the EDPS, any reference to the GDPR should be understood as corresponding references to the EUDPR, 
where the latter is not explicitly referred to. More specifically, Articles 43-45 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 
relate to DPOs. 
7 However, in some EU Member States, an equivalent of the DPOs existed before the GDPR. 
8 ‘GDPR at FIVE’, IAPP, May 2023, available at https://iapp.org/media/pdf/resource center/gdpr at five.pdf.  

Adopted 

 

6 

The GDPR sets out specific rules regarding the designation, knowledge and experience of DPOs, the 
tasks and resources allocated to them as well as on their actual role and position9. One of the goals of 
this CEF was to generate deeper insight for SAs on the compliance of organisations with the applicable 
GDPR provisions and identify potential difficulties that DPOs are facing when conducting their tasks. 
 
Building on common preparatory work, the EDPB announced the initiation of the action on 15 March 
202310.  Throughout  2023,  25  supervisory  authorities  across  the  EEA  launched  coordinated 
investigations into the role of DPOs. The CEF was implemented at national level in one or several of 
the following ways: (1) fact-finding exercises, (2) a questionnaire to identify if a formal investigation is 
warranted, and/or (3) commencement of a formal enforcement investigation, or follow-up of ongoing 
formal investigations. More specifically, eighteen SAs stated that the initial procedural framework of 
their action was fact-finding. Out of these, thirteen indicated that such fact-finding could serve to 
determine follow-up action based on the results. In practice, ten SAs have initiated – or are planning 
to initiate – new formal investigations, or have been continuing ongoing investigations as part of this 
CEF action. The PL SA already had ongoing investigations on the matter; it therefore did not participate 
in the questionnaire but decided to join the CEF to exchange on its findings. Finally, NL SA’s survey at 
national level took place during the writing of this report; the rapporteurs did their best to include 
these results in all statistical aspects, however the qualitative analysis of their reports could not be 
considered in the general discussion presented here.  
 
The present report aggregates the findings of supervisory authorities participating in the CEF, and 
provides a state of play of their work. In particular, the first part of this report presents statistics 
regarding the stakeholders’ answers for each SA, while the second part analyses the challenges faced 
by DPOs and organisations (controllers or processors) that have designated a DPO, and how these may 
impact compliance with GDPR/EUDPR. For each identified challenge, we present a short description 
of the issue at hand, which provisions of the GDPR apply and why this has been an issue for the 
participating stakeholders. In addition, we present an overview of the actions already implemented 
or ongoing, including guidance, enforcement actions or potential actions by SAs. 
 
The SAs’ national reports are attached as appendices to this report and provide further detail on the 
results obtained and the analyses and observations made at national level. 
 
With this second CEF action, the EDPB intends to: 

-  obtain insights regarding the profile, position and work of DPOs in practice to guide 

- 

- 

- 

- 

enforcement actions of SAs, 
collect the experience and conclusions of the supervisory authorities that have initiated 
or planned formal investigations or have continued investigations under this CEF action 
for analysis, 
raise  awareness  of  the  requirements  applicable  to  DPOs  within  organisations  (in 
particular within the highest management level of organisations), 
ensure that DPOs fulfil the key role assigned to them by data protection law to facilitate 
compliance and promote the role of the DPO and 
evaluate DPOs’ and organisations’ needs on further guidance and other form of support. 
 

                                                 
9 Articles 37 to 39 and recital 97 GDPR. 
10 Launch of coordinated enforcement on role of data protection officers, EDPB, 15 March 2023, 
https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2023/launch-coordinated-enforcement-role-data-protection-officers en.  

Adopted 

 

7 

2  BACKGROUND AND METHODOLOGY 
2.1  Legal background 
 
The GDPR did not invent the concept of a data protection officer. However, it did impose, among other 
things,  new  EU-wide  requirements  setting  out  conditions  under  which  such  an  officer  must  be 
appointed,11 the powers that such an officer should have, and several conditions relating to their 
position within an entity’s structure and processes. Prior to the entry into force of the GDPR, the 
Article 29 Working Party hailed the role of DPOs as ‘a cornerstone of accountability’, and its Guidelines 
on Data Protection Officers from 2017 ('Guidelines on DPOs'), which were endorsed by the EDPB 
following the GDPR’s entry into force, stated that they would be ‘the heart of this new legal framework 
for many organisations’.12 
  
Under  Article  43  EUDPR,  all  EU  institutions  or  bodies  must  appoint  a  data  protection  officer. 
Meanwhile, Article 37(1) GDPR states that a controller and processor shall designate a DPO if: 

a.  the processing is carried out by a public authority or body, except for courts acting in their 

judicial capacity; 

b.  the core activities of the controller or the processor consist of processing operations which, 
by virtue of their nature, their scope and/or their purposes, require regular and systematic 
monitoring of data subjects on a large scale; or 
the core activities of the controller or the processor consist of processing on a large scale of 
special categories of data pursuant to Article 9 GDPR and personal data relating to criminal 
convictions and offences referred to in Article 10 GDPR. 

c. 

  
Once appointed, Article 38(1) GDPR and Article 44(1) EUDPR require that controllers and processors 
keep the DPO ‘involved, properly and in a timely manner, in all issues which relate to the protection 
of personal data’, with Article 38(2) GDPR and Article 44(2) EUDPR obliging controllers and processors 
to ‘support’ the DPO ‘by providing resources’ for their tasks, and Article 38(3) GDPR and Article 44(3) 
EUDPR requiring that the officer be independent of influence from those controllers and processors. 
Article 39 GDPR and Article 45 EUDPR, meanwhile, set out a number of tasks for the DPO, including 
that they must monitor and advise on GDPR compliance, and cooperate with supervisory authorities. 
DPOs are also intended to be visible figures that can interact with data subjects; Articles 13(1)(b), 
14(1)(b) and 37(7) GDPR, and Articles 15(1)(b), 16(1)(b) and 43(3) EUDPR require controllers to make 
the DPO’s contact details available, so that they can be contacted if needed. 
 
EU data protection law also provides solutions to adapt the appointment and functioning of the DPO 
to the specific needs of the controller or processor concerned, taking into account the complexity of 
their processing of personal data. Under Articles 38(6) GDPR and 44(6) EUDPR, the role can be included 
as part of another position (provided that the role’s other tasks and duties do not result in a conflict 
of interests) and, per paragraph (3) of both provisions, that the DPO ‘shall directly report to the highest 
management level of the controller or the processor’. Further, Articles 37(2) and (3) GDPR, and 43(2) 
EUDPR, allow multiple controllers or processors (whether undertakings or public bodies under the 
GDPR or EU institutions and bodies under the EUDPR) to appoint a single data protection officer, 
provided that the DPO is easily accessible for all. Meanwhile, Article 37(6) GDPR and Article 43(4) 
EUDPR state that a DPO does not necessarily have to be a full member of staff and can instead fulfil 
their tasks on the basis of a service contract. Notably, unlike the GDPR, the EUDPR does not consider 

                                                 
11 Although, as noted above, the obligation to appoint a DPO did already exist for EU Institutions and Bodies 
under Regulation 45/2001, Article 24, as well as in the national laws of some Member States. 
12 EDPB, Guidelines on Data Protection Officers (‘DPOs’), WP 243 rev.01, revised and adopted 5 April 2017, 
page 4. 

Adopted 

 

8 

these two options on an equal footing, as Article 43(4) provides that the DPO shall be a staff member 
of the EU institution; it is only when taking into account their size, and if the option to have  a shared 
DPO with another EU institution is not exercised, that an EU institution may designate a DPO on the 
basis of a service contract. Each of these provisions are particularly useful for smaller controllers and 
processors who may wish to employ a DPO but do not have the resources to bring on a dedicated, 
permanent member of staff. However, it is very important that, even where the DPO has other roles 
or operates on a part-time basis, the DPO’s tasks remain the same – and, as set out above, controllers 
and processors must ensure that they provide adequate time, training and resources for the DPO to 
do their job properly. 
  
The GDPR sets out the conditions under which a DPO must be appointed, but controllers or processors 
may also choose to appoint one voluntarily. As a compliance method, this can be extremely useful; 
having a data protection expert who is tied into planning and decision-making processes helps with 
not only the principle of accountability under Article 5(2) GDPR, but also the Article 24(1) obligation 
to  implement  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  to  ensure  compliance  with  the 
GDPR, the Article 25 obligations towards Data Protection by Design and by Default, among many 
others. 
 

2.2  Methodology 
 
Participating supervisory authorities first drafted a questionnaire together in English, which would 
then be translated into the relevant EU languages and to be sent to the stakeholders of each SA's 
choice at national level. The questionnaire was drafted to allow SAs to apply different strategies in 
their choice of target for this questionnaire. One authority (EDPS) chose not to use the commonly-
built questionnaire as such, but rather used a set of questions inspired from this questionnaire, which 
was adapted to take into account the EDPS realities (different legal framework, public sector only). PL 
SA participated in the effort through ongoing investigations that started before the launch of this CEF, 
and  therefore  did  not  use  the  questionnaire  but  rather  its  own  set  of  questions.  In  these 
circumstances, the statistics given in this report based on the commonly-built questionnaire do not 
include PL SA. However, PL SA provided the preliminary results of its ongoing formal investigations as 
part of this CEF.  
  
The following information may be relevant to analyse the results of the survey. 
 
Cultural and language differences: 
The questionnaire has been translated in 24 languages and answered in those target languages. While 
translations have been proofread by SAs, the wording of the questions may have been understood or 
interpreted differently depending on language or cultural differences. 
 
This  difficulty  is  particularly  visible  for  Question  7  regarding  the  average  duration  of  the  DPOs 
appointment to the role. Some answered the time they foresee in the role (i.e. based on their type of 
contract) and others based on their seniority in the role. 
 
Qualitative or quantitative? 
Each  participating  supervisory  authority  developed  its  own  strategy  for  the  recipients  of  this 
commonly-built questionnaire. Overall, they sent their CEF questionnaire to 61,962 recipients (42,875 
organisations and 19,087 DPOs). Out of the contacted stakeholders, 17,490 responded and completed 
the questionnaire: 15,108 organisations and 2,382 DPOs, providing valuable global results that can be 
considered significant.  

Adopted 

 

9 

 
However the  volume  and  profile  of  contacted  stakeholders  vary  at  national  level.  To  analyse the 
results it is necessary to identify their strategies, in particular those who adopted the most different 
ones: 

•  On  the  one  hand,  the  Austrian,  Bavarian,  French, Greek,  Latvian,  and  Swedish  authorities 
provided qualitative oriented results built upon formal investigations of a small number of 
stakeholders. 

•  On the other hand, the Belgian, Croatian, Cyprian, Dutch, Liechtenstein, Maltese, Portuguese, 
Slovenian  and  Spanish  SAs  aimed  at  quantitative  results,  sending  their  questionnaires  to 
hundreds (for the smaller countries) to tens of thousands (for the biggest) of organisations 
and DPOs. For example, the Belgian, Dutch, Liechtenstein, Portuguese, Slovenian and Spanish 
SAs contacted all DPOs whose contact details had been notified according to Article 37(7) 
GDPR. 
 

 
These various strategies have to be taken into account when comparing the answers as this context 
might have an impact. In particular, questions regarding compliance are globally more positive for the 
first group (i.e. formal investigation) compared to the opposite group (i.e. anonymous massive survey). 
 
Considering that each authority processed between 10 and 10,257 answers of the 17,490 answers 
collected, and to be able to see EU-wide trends, we chose to compute Average and Median based on 
the percentage of respondents per authority. The same indicators built on the sum of answers would 
give different numbers. 
 
Who answered? 
Sixteen  SAs  contacted  organisations  (either  data  processors  or  data  controllers)  while  seven  SAs 
reached out to DPOs directly, and two SAs did both. Overall, SAs contacted 61,962 recipients: 42,875 
organisations and 19,087 DPOs. Out of those, 17,490 responded and completed the questionnaire: 
15,108 organisations and 2,382 DPOs.  
 
This might have two foreseeable consequences: 

•  When a DPO was shared by several organisations, it is possible that he or she responded only 
once to the survey (as opposed to completing one survey per organisation for which he/she 
is acting as DPO). 

•  The survey was mostly completed by organisations (controllers or processors), which may 

have presented their compliance under a more positive light than if filled out by their DPO. 

Adopted 

 

10 

Certain  SAs  decided  to  contact  a  specific 
sector or category of organisations. Public-
sector organisations were contacted by the 
CZ  SA  (ministries),  DK  SA  (municipalities), 
the  EDPS  (all  the  European  Union  (EU) 
institutions13 and their DPOs), EL SA and HU 
SA. LV SA chose to contact the public sector 
and associations. Other SAs decided to only 
contact private-sector organisations (DE SA 
Bavaria for the private sector, LT SA, MT SA, 
entities operating in the financial sector for 
AT SA) or organisations across sectors (BE, 
CY, EE, ES, FI, FR, HR, IE, IT, LI, LV,NL, PT, SI 
and SE SAs). 
 
The results obtained at national level are consolidated in Appendixes 1.1 and 1.2. Appendix 1.1 sets 
out the statistical results obtained in each Member State. The means and median of national statistics 
are displayed, along with the minimum and maximum percentage obtained across Member States. 
Appendix 1.2 displays the qualitative feedback provided by participating SAs with respect to the CEF 
action carried out at national level.  
 
For those wishing to analyse the results in Appendixes, the following final elements of context would 
need to be taken into account:  

•  SAs who sent the commonly-built questionnaire sometimes added more questions or possible 
answers to the common questionnaire or sometimes removed or slightly modified certain 
questions.  

•  The questionnaire sent by SAs included a limited number of possible answers and no open-

field questions. 

•  The  questionnaire  did  not  ask  for  the  size  of  the  contacted  organisations,  the  type  of 

processing carried out nor the categories of personal data processed.  

In the current report, except when specifically stated, all statistics given at the EU level are means of 
the national results. 
 

                                                 
13 This refers to EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. 

Adopted 

 

11 

This is more than just an awareness problem. 12 respondents from seven Member States (out of 
15,108 organisations interrogated) admitted to not appointing a DPO, even though designation was 
compulsory in those cases (Question 4). Some controllers attempted to provide a justification for this 
lack of appointment, for example by stating that the organisation outsourced the function as and 
when they considered it necessary, or because the DPO had quit and they were unable to find a 
replacement.  
 
Nevertheless, it is also important to remember the methodological limitations of the questionnaire, 
as it is highly unlikely that these numbers reflect the true extent of noncompliance with Article 37(1). 
 
Suggested recommendations to address this challenge:  

•  More initiatives by SAs could raise awareness among organisations regarding their obligation 
to designate a DPO, including as to whether or not a DPO is actually required. Further guidance 
from SAs on the applicable requirements to designate a DPO, further awareness campaigns 
to promote existing guidance on this topic (including the SMEs Guide16) and enforcement 
actions can be part of the solution to educate controllers and processors. 

Insufficient resources allocated to DPOs 

4.2 
 
Even where a DPO was appointed, the surveys raised some concerns as to the resources that were 
being made available to those officers. As noted above, Article 38(2) GDPR requires that controllers 
and processors give adequate resources to their DPO. In some cases, as noted by the Guidelines on 
DPOs, it may even be necessary to set up a DPO team, depending on the size and structure of the 
organisation.17 Unfortunately, these resources may not be allocated in all cases.  
 
Many of the responding SAs commented in their national report that they had seen a lack of sufficient 
resources. Of those SAs, many highlighted a lack of human resources, with some expressing concern 
about organisations’ lack of deputy DPOs. This is problematic, both in terms of active compliance 
today (e.g. because a DPO is expected to perform more work than they can actually handle, so that 
some matters must then be neglected) and in terms of preserving long-term compliance (e.g. ensuring 
continuity when a DPO is on leave, becomes sick or resigns, or if the DPO burns out from trying to 
manage everything on their own). 
  
Another  concern,  raised  by  several  SAs, was  that  external DPOs  acting  for multiple  controllers or 
processors may end up spreading themselves too thinly, representing too many clients and so being 
unable to spend appropriate time on each one. Similar concerns were expressed for in-house DPOs, 
with many controllers hiring DPOs on a part time basis, or diverting at least some of their DPO’s time 
to other tasks. 
  
It must be remembered that the GDPR does not strictly require controllers or processors to have a 
deputy DPO, nor does it prohibit part-time DPOs, DPOs with multiple duties or the sharing of DPOs. 
However, even when a DPO is appointed under these conditions, Article 38(2) GDPR still requires that 
the DPO has sufficient resources necessary to carry out their tasks. Ensuring compliance with this 
provision will be significantly easier with a dedicated, full-time DPO, supported by a team and deputy 
DPO where appropriate. Equally, while also not strictly required by the GDPR, providing the DPO with 
control over their budget, it will be easier for that officer to manage their resources in an appropriately 
responsive and independent manner.  
 
                                                 
16 The EDPB data protection guide for small business, available at https://edpb.europa.eu/sme-data-
protection-guide/home en.  
17 Guidelines on DPOs, page 14. 

Adopted 

 

15 

 
Suggested recommendations to address this challenge:  

•  SAs and/or the EDPB could provide further guidance and training sessions for DPOs (e.g. as in 
France  with  free  online  MOOC  courses,  or  as  in  Poland  by  publishing  answers  to  DPOs’ 
questions regarding both status and tasks of DPOs, or as at the EDPS by offering a welcome 
package of information to newly appointed DPOs). See also the subsection below on ‘further 
guidance by SAs’, which indicated a clear need for more guidance. These trainings (and the 
amount of trainings necessary) can then be customised according to the specific needs of each 
Member State. For example, an extensive data protection training programme for DPOs was 
launched in Croatia as part of the EDPB‘s Support Pool of Experts (SPE) initiative18. 

•  Controllers  and  processors  should  ensure  that  they  are  documenting  their  organisations' 
knowledge and training needs and progress. This can also be important to ensure compliance 
with Articles 24 and 5(2) GDPR, and Articles 26 and 4(2) EUDPR. 

•  Controllers and processors should ensure that DPOs are given sufficient opportunities, time 
and resources to refresh their knowledge and learn about the latest developments, including, 
where  relevant  to  their  activities  and/or  purposes,  on  new  EU  digital-  and  AI-related 
legislation. 
Increased use of certification mechanisms and initiatives where relevant (e.g. as in France). 
Increased cooperation from stakeholders with universities and market-led training courses. 

• 
• 

 

4.4  DPOs not being fully or explicitly entrusted with the tasks required under the GDPR 

4.4.1  DPOs not being given key roles as required under the GDPR 
 
Article 39 GDPR sets out a number of tasks which must be performed by a data protection officer. 
However, based on the survey results, these tasks may not always be being properly assigned.  
  
As  a  starting  point,  it  is  clear  from  the  responses  that most  respondents  do  not  assign  all of  the 
required responsibilities to their DPOs. It is not possible to say from the data whether this is because 
some of those tasks have never arisen in practice. Nevertheless, the data does raise serious questions, 
with  some  dramatic  variations  in  the  frequency  with  which  different  tasks  are  undertaken  by  or 
assigned to DPOs. For example, the most commonly performed or assigned task was for DPOs to 
inform and advise on obligations pursuant to data protection law, with a median reported rate of 
96.51% (Question 16). Given that this would seem to be core to the role of the DPO, it is slightly 
concerning that even this task was not universal, with one Member State reporting that just 78.23% 
of respondents had performed or been assigned this task (Question 16). Meanwhile, the task with the 
lowest reported score (both in terms of median from all Member States and the lowest percentage of 
respondents from any particular Member State) was monitoring the performance of data protection 
impact assessments19, with a median of 69.66% and a Member State low of 31.38% respondents 
                                                 
18 ‘Data Protection Training Programme for DPOs in Croatia’, HR SA’s website, available at 
https://azop.hr/edpb-support-pool-of-expert-project-data-protection-training-programme-for-dpos-in-
croatia/;  
also see EDPB Support Pool of Experts initiative, available at https://edpb.europa.eu/support-pool-experts-
spe-programme en 
 
19 The EDPB Report on the CEF on the Use of cloud-based services by the public sector (available at 
https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/other/coordinated-enforcement-action-use-cloud-
based-services-public en) already noted on page 11 that in most cases, the controllers’ DPOs were not closely 
involved in the process of the data protection impact assessments. This raised concerns amongst some of the 
participating SAs. This Report highlighted that ‘Close involvement of the DPO can in fact aid public bodies to 
implement cloud applications in a way that is compliant with the GDPR’.  

Adopted 

 

19 

 
 
 
Suggested recommendations to address this challenge:  

•  All stakeholders should promote the role of the Data Protection Officer within organisations to 
ensure that the DPO is seen as necessary and effective support of the controller or processor 
in accordance with the GDPR/EUDPR.  

•  SAs  can  support  and  encourage  initiatives  to  protect  and  enhance  a  DPO's  independence 
regardless of the form of the contract under which they perform their function, so that DPOs 
feel safe to fulfil all aspects of their role. 

•  Controllers  and  processors  should  ensure  that  they  are  actively  reviewing  and  (where 
necessary) improving the DPO's involvement within the organisation. Such review may, among 
other things, consider the Guidelines on DPOs, an annual report of the DPO's activities, and 
general good practices. 
 

4.5  Conflict of interests and lack of independence of the DPO 
 
Based on the survey results, up to 15 participating SAs reported in their qualitative analysis that certain 
DPOs  are  likely  to  be  in  a  situation  of  conflict  of  interests  and/or  identified  risks  to  the  DPOs’ 
independence.  

4.5.1  Conflict of interests due to conflicting roles or tasks 
 
Only a median of 45.82% of contacted DPOs worked full time (Question 18). In addition, the survey 
revealed that a wide range of additional tasks or roles were entrusted to the DPOs, irrespective of 
whether these are linked to those assigned to them in their role as DPO (Questions 17 and 25). A 
median of 33.97% of DPOs were also shared among several organisations (Question 5). While Article 
38(6) GDPR does allow DPOs to fulfil other tasks and duties, it is up to the controller or processor to 
ensure that they do not result in a conflict of interests21. Based on the survey results, many SAs have 
identified situations that could potentially give rise to conflicts of interests, subject to an evaluation 
on a case-by-case basis22. 
 
First, in-house DPOs sometimes hold positions or have duties related to the (highest) management 
level of their organisation. In seven Member States, more than 20% of the respondents answered that 
the DPO belonged to the highest management (Question 8). This means that these DPOs may act as 
directors (e.g. Chief Financial Officer or Chief Executive Officer) or heads of departments, where they 
are likely to take decisions on the purposes and the means of the data processing activities of their 
organisation. Corroborating this finding, a median of 17% of the respondents specified that the DPO 
takes part in the decision-making processing for personal data processing (Question 17). However, the 
                                                 
21 CJEU Judgment of 9 February 2023, C-453/21, X-Fab Dresden GmbH & Co. KG, ECLI:EU:C:2023:79 (‘CJEU X-
Fab Dresden Judgment’), paragraph 40: ‘the GDPR does not establish that there is a fundamental 
incompatibility between, on the one hand, the performance of DPO’s duties and, on the other hand, the 
performance of other duties within the controller or processor. Article 38(6) [GDPR] specifically provides that 
the DPO may be entrusted with performing tasks and duties other than those for which it is responsible under 
Article 39 [GDPR].’ 
22 CJEU X-Fab Dresden Judgment, paragraph 45: ‘The determination of the existence of a conflict of interests 
[...], must be carried out, case by case, on the basis of an assessment of all the relevant circumstances, in 
particular the organisational structure of the controller or its processor and in the light of all the applicable 
rules, including any policies of the controller or its processor’. Also see Guidelines on DPOs, page 16. 

Adopted 

 

24 

CJEU has recently concluded that a ‘conflict of interests’ may exist when a DPO holds a role or position 
within an organisation that involves determining the purposes and the means of the processing of 
personal  data23,  as  DPOs  have  to  evaluate,  scrutinise  and  possibly  criticise  such  processing 
independently under Article 39(1)(b) GDPR. 

Q17. Which of the following additional tasks are committed/assigned to the 

DPO?

Responsibility for the lawfulness of the processings

20,4%

Drafting and/or negotiating contracts

Handling data subjects' rights requests

Drafting and/or carrying out DPIAs

Developing data protection processes

45,1%

50,9%

36,1%

45,2%

Decision-making on processing

20,7%

0,0%

10,0%

20,0%

30,0%

40,0%

50,0%

60,0%

 
Secondly, as also noted in Section 4.4.1, the survey indicates more generally that some DPOs are in 
charge of contradictory tasks requiring them to act simultaneously in two roles (Question 17). This 
may prevent the DPOs’ tasks that are required under data protection law from being properly carried 
out. As mentioned above, the list of tasks of the DPO is not exhaustive; however, when assigning other 
tasks to the DPO, the controller or processor needs to ensure that these tasks cannot cause a conflict 
of interests. 
 
Thirdly, the above issues are also relevant for external DPOs, who may also be entrusted with both 
the regular tasks of the DPO and additional tasks which may lead to situations where the outsourced 
DPOs monitor their own activities. For example, as pointed out by one SA, law firms designated as 
external DPOs are also sometimes  entrusted with tasks that can conflict with their DPO tasks.  They 
may be asked to represent their clients in court for data protection cases despite acting as their DPO, 
even though this practice may lead to conflicts of interests as already pointed out by the Guidelines 
on DPOs24. 
 
A  similar  situation  of  conflict of  interests may arise  in  another  case  examined in  the  CEF, where, 
according to the findings of one SA, the external DPO also acted as the DPO of the controller and the 
processor.  Even  if  the  controller  itself  is obliged  to monitor  the  processor  (see  Articles  28(1)  and 
28(3)(h) GDPR), the simultaneous performance of monitoring tasks vis-à-vis the controller and the 
processor  leads  to  a  conflict  of  interests  for  the  DPO,  due  to  their  different  responsibilities  and 
interests, which weakens the fulfilment the DPO’s role. 
 
The above findings are problematic given that, as recently emphasised by the CJEU, the purpose of 
Article  38(6) GDPR  is  to ‘preserve  the  functional  independence of the  DPO  and,  consequently,  to 
ensure the effectiveness of the provisions of the GDPR’25. 
 
Lastly, while it was not included in the survey as such, one SA noted the lack of procedures within 
organisations to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided (as soon as the phase of designation of 

                                                 
23 CJEU X-Fab Dresden Judgment, paragraph 44. 
24 Also see Guidelines DPOs, page 16. 
25 CJEU X-Fab Dresden Judgment, paragraph 42. 

Adopted 

 

25 

independence (Question 24). One SA pointed out that, where a DPO lacks control over its own budget, 
the DPO’s ability to prioritise critical tasks is significantly hindered, which may lead to insufficient or 
delayed  responses  to  urgent  data  protection  issues  and  undermine  compliance  efforts.  Further, 
according to the same SA, when the budget allocated to the DPO is managed by the organisation, the 
DPO’s lack of financial autonomy could make the DPO hesitant to criticise the organisation’s data 
protection practices, fearing budget cuts or resource limitations as a form of retaliation. 
  
Although the number of DPOs reporting having suffered serious negative consequences for carrying 
out  their  tasks  and  duties,  i.e.  dismissal  or  penalisation,  is  very  low  (ranging  from  0%  to  4.35% 
depending  on  the  Member  State  for  Question  33),  this  is  still  cause  for  concern  since  the 
independence of the DPO cannot be guaranteed if they risk retaliation for performing their tasks. In 
addition, the methodology of the survey has to be borne in mind, as an overwhelming majority of 
respondents are organisations themselves (see Section 2 on Methodology). Furthermore, where a 
conflict of interests does exist, this may have lowered the reporting of negative consequences in the 
survey.  Lastly,  another  SA  highlighted  that  even  though  no  dismissal  or  penalisation  had  been 
reported, no safeguards had been put in place to prevent such a decision from occurring. While this is 
not in itself a breach of GDPR, it is problematic that no protections against unlawful dismissal or 
penalisation  are  preventively  put  in  place,  even  though  some  protection may  be  provided  for  by 
national labour-law provisions in some Member States26.    
 
Suggested recommendations to address this challenge:  

•  More awareness-raising activities, information and enforcement actions on the independence 
of the DPO could be envisaged (including on the prohibition on penalising and dismissing DPOs 
for performing their DPOs’ tasks), either by SAs or internally by organisations themselves. 

•  Organisations and DPOs could formalise the DPO’s duties and conditions for performing the 

DPO’s duties in an ‘engagement letter’. 

•  DPOs should be able to collect evidence in the event of interferences with their independence. 

  

4.6  Lack of reporting by the DPO to the organisations’ highest management level  
 
Article 38(3) GDPR requires DPOs to report to the organisation’s highest management level. Therefore 
it is concerning that, in some cases, DPOs are not expected to regularly do such reporting, or do not 
do  so  on  a  voluntary  basis,  or  that  some  of  the  contacted  organisations/DPOs  have  selected  the 
response in the survey ‘do not know or wish to answer the question’ (Question 34). In four Member 
States, 30% or more of respondents have even indicated that the DPO is not expected to carry out 
such reporting at all. These results reveal that DPOs may not have a direct access to the highest 
management level. In that regard, three SAs found the DPO was expected to report to other functions 
in the lower levels of management.  More specifically,  at least one SA reported that some of the 
contacted  organisations  assigned  the  DPO  to  a  subordinate  role  at  the  lower  management  level. 
Furthermore, their organisational chart only showed a ‘dotted line’ between the DPO and the highest 
management  level,  instead  of  a  ‘strict  line’,  indicating  an  unclear  relationship  with  the  highest 
management level. These findings require further investigation to ascertain whether the DPO has an 
explicitly guaranteed and unrestricted opportunity to report to top management when needed. 
 
It is noteworthy that the most common answer across the EEA concerning the frequency of DPO 
reporting was only ‘one to two times per year’, with a median of 45.64% (Question 34). While the 
GDPR and the Guidelines on DPOs do not specify how frequent the reporting should be, infrequent or 

                                                 
26 CJEU Judgment of 22 June 2022, Leistritz, case C-534/20.  

Adopted 

 

27 

request from DPOs’ in that regard. Overall, a median of more than 60% of the respondents in the 
different Member States indicated that they would like to be provided with (1) Q&As or FAQs, (2) 
additional guidelines, and (3) training materials or documents, both for DPOs and to be distributed 
within organisations (Question 41). The survey also showed a clear interest for more online tools, with 
a median of 50.95% of the respondents in each Member State eager to engage with such tools. To 
confirm this conclusion, a median of 4.81% of the respondents considered that no further guidance 
from their SA was necessary. 
 
Additional  guidance  could  help  to  empower  DPOs  and  address  some  of  the  challenges  identified 
above. It could also enable DPOs to carry out their tasks more efficiently, for example by providing 
them with user-friendly templates and materials for internal training of staff members (to be adjusted 
depending  on  the  processing  activities  carried  out  organisations),  which  can  save  time  and  thus 
alleviate DPOs’ insufficient resources28. Further guidance, for example in the form of online courses, 
workshops or certifications, could also address the insufficient expertise or training of some DPOs. 
Specific  materials  could  support  DPOs  in  maintaining  and  updating  their  expert  knowledge.  For 
example, some respondents expressed the desire to receive newsletters or updates on the decisions 
adopted  in  the  field  of  data  protection  across  the  EEA.  As  pointed  out  by  one  SA  and  some 
respondents, guidance dealing with specific issues is also needed as DPOs are required to be experts 
in  many  different  aspects  of  data  protection,  both  legal-  and  IT-related,  and  give  guidance  on 
(sometimes)  extremely  complex  issues.  In  addition,  educating  internal  stakeholders,  such  as  staff 
members and the highest management, could raise awareness as to what the DPOs’ role and tasks 
actually are under data protection law. This would ultimately give more visibility to the DPOs at all 
levels of organisations and ensure the DPOs’ greater involvement. 
 
Some guidance is already available both at national and EEA levels. Section 5 maps out the existing 
guidance and actions carried out by SAs in relation to DPOs and shows in particular the very diverse 
forms of support provided by SAs to DPOs across the EEA. The nature, volume and format of the 
available guidance vary significantly across the EU, with a few SAs having extensive guidance in place 
for DPOs and/or organisations, while others primarily rely on the Guidelines on DPOs. In that regard, 
it is noteworthy that the respondents’ call for further guidance appears also in Member States with 
comprehensive guidance. 
 
As mentioned above, the Guidelines on DPOs should be developed further based on the survey results 
analysed in Section 4, also taking into account the new roles that might be taken on by DPOs in certain 
organisations under the new pieces of EU legislation in the digital field. 
 
However, adopting further guidance will require that both national SAs and the EDPB are provided 
with appropriate resources to be able to analyse stakeholders’ need and address it. This includes 
having the necessary financial and human resources, especially for smaller SAs. It is noteworthy that, 
as part of EDPB Support Pool of Experts initiative, an extensive DPO training programme was launched 
in Croatia, specifically tailored for the health and educational sectors to address the existing shortage 
of experienced data protection practitioners. More specifically, an external expert designed training 
materials and Q&A for DPOs.  

4.8  Conclusion on the levels of awareness and compliance  
 
There are many links between the challenges and concerns identified above. In other words, their 
cause(s)  and consequence(s)  are often  intertwined. For example,  where an organisation  allocates 
insufficient resources to the DPO, this may lead to the DPO being assigned tasks that fall outside of 
                                                 
28 A few SAs adjusted the questionnaire to be sent at national level and included free-text fields to open 
additional input from stakeholders.  

Adopted 

 

29 

the DPO’s core missions under the GDPR, which in turn may lead to a conflict of interests. Another 
example could be that, where a DPO does not directly report to the highest level of management, this 
could reinforce the lack of awareness regarding the DPO’s core missions within the organisation and 
the management could decide to allocate fewer resources than necessary to the DPO as it would not 
be  aware  of  the  data  protection  issues  identified  by  the  DPO,  leading,  among  other  things,  to  a 
reduced budget for DPO training.  
 
These challenges hamper the key role assigned to the DPO by the GDPR as they impede DPOs from 
properly fulfilling their mission and all their tasks. This is particularly problematic as the DPO may not 
be  able  to  foster  a  real  data  protection  compliance  culture  within  organisations  nor  protect  data 
subjects’ rights due to these challenges. As a result, they may not only give rise to infringements of 
the  GDPR  provisions  on  DPOs,  but  also  –  more  generally  –  to  the  controllers’  and  processors’ 
obligations under the GDPR.  
 
Based on the survey results, participating SAs assessed the levels of awareness and compliance of the 
contacted organisations with the data protection law requirements on DPOs in their individual reports 
(Appendix 1.2, under Question 1 in Part IV). On the one hand, the overall levels of awareness and 
compliance were deemed low or insufficient by four SAs due to visible shortcomings, with only few 
results  deemed  completely  unproblematic  (CZ,  EL,  FI,  HR  SAs).  On  the  other  hand,  despite  the 
shortcomings  identified,  ten  SAs  were  under  the  general  impression  that  the survey  results were 
overall  positive  or  satisfactory  (AT,  CY,  DK,  ES,  EDPS,  IE,  IT,  LI,  LT,  MT  SAs).  NL  SA  also  had  the 
impression that the level of awareness amongst respondents was far above average. 
 
Participating SAs observed disparities in the level of compliance with DPO requirements at national 
level,  regardless  of  whether  the  questionnaire  was  completed  by  a  homogenous  (CZ  SA)  or 
heterogeneous pool of respondents (BE, FI, SE SAs). Nevertheless, the SAs’ assessment also varied to 
some extent depending on the addressed stakeholders and the results obtained at national level. For 
example, according to the EDPS, the levels of awareness and compliance were high among the EU 
Institutions. The DK SA shared the same evaluation for the contacted municipalities. The eleven banks 
contacted by AT SA also took the role of the DPO very seriously. According to NL SA, the results 
obtained were explained by the fact that only registered DPOs (as opposed to organisations) were 
invited to complete the questionnaire. Adopting a nuanced approach, the PT SA concluded that there 
was a reasonable level of awareness but a significant deficit in the level of compliance. 
 
Given  the  disparities  observed  across  the  EEA,  enhanced  cooperation  between  SAs  could  further 
improve  the  levels  of  compliance  and  awareness  in  some  Member  States.  For  example,  the  SAs’ 
national reports set out in Appendix 1.2 include useful best practices that were observed by some SAs 
in their Member State, and which could be promoted in other Member States. 
 
Without prejudice to the challenges above and the concerns expressed by SAs regarding compliance 
with  certain  DPO  requirements,  participating  SAs  emphasised,  among  other  things,  the  following 
positive trends: 

• 

In some cases, despite being a relatively new profession, the level of experience and expertise 
of DPOs was high (LV, MT SAs), which clearly indicates that the DPO function is becoming more 
and more professionalised (EDPS). 

•  Most of the respondents indicated that DPOs are involved or consulted in handling and solving 
problems related to the processing and protection of personal data in the organisation (IE SA). 
According to respondents, most DPOs seem to have a real impact in their organisations as the 
survey shows that their advice is generally followed (EDPS, IE, LV, MT SAs).  

•  Data subjects have the opportunity to contact the DPO in matters related to the processing of 

their personal data or the exercise of data subject rights. 

 

Adopted 

 

30 

Four SAs stressed that there was still plenty of room for improvement (EL, DK, EE, LV SAs). Further, 
some SAs noted a lack of full understanding of the DPO’s role and a shortcoming of awareness (DE SA 
Bavaria,  LV,  PL  and  SI  SAs).  In  this  regard,  SAs  emphasised  the  need  to  strengthen  the  role  and 
recognition of the DPO and to continue making organisations aware of both the importance of the 
DPO’s role in ensuring compliance with data protection requirements and of the necessity to provide 
the necessary resources, in terms of training and budget, in the fulfilment of their tasks (BE, ES, IT, LV 
SAs). 
  
5  ACTIONS TAKEN BY SAS  
 
This  section  maps  out  the  actions  carried  out  by  SAs  at  national  level  in  relation  to  DPOs  and 
summarises them depending on their nature (e.g. whether they relate to enforcement or soft-law 
guidance). However, this section does not aim to present a comprehensive overview of all actions 
conducted by SAs, nor does it list ongoing actions that are not finalised and on which SAs have not yet 
publicly communicated. Each individual report of the participating SA detailing their respective actions 
is available in Appendix 2.2 attached to this report. 

5.1  Enforcement actions 
 
SAs have a number of powers at their disposal in accordance with Article 58 GDPR, including corrective 
powers such as issuing reprimands or orders to comply or even fines, for cases of non-compliance with 
the legal requirements for DPOs. In accordance with Article 83 (4) GDPR, if a controller or processor 
does not fulfil its obligations in line with Articles 37 to 39 GDPR, it can be subject to administrative 
fines up to 10,000,000 EUR or, in the case of an undertaking, up to 2% of the total worldwide annual 
turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher. However, in that regard, it should be 
noted that SAs in some Member States could not issue fines towards public authorities. 
 
Of the participating SAs, ten have already taken action at national level to enforce DPOs’ requirements 
under the GDPR prior to this CEF. For instance, BE SA has adopted eight decisions that notably relate 
to the role of the DPO from April 2020 to August 2023, on such topics as the DPO independence29, 
conflict of interests with the DPO’s assigned tasks30, the level of organisations’ support towards their 
DPOs31, the failure to report to the highest management level32, the failure to appoint a DPO33 and 
the lack of DPO’s involvement34. As of the date of entry into force of the GDPR, PL SA has been starting 
investigations to ensure compliance with DPO requirements. For instance, PL SA has taken corrective 
                                                 
29 BE SA, Decision n°15/2020, 15 April 2020, available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publicatio
ns/decision-quant-au-fond-n-15-2020.pdf. 
30 BE SA, Decision n°18/2020, 28 April 2020, available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publicatio
ns/decision-quant-au-fond-n-18-2020.pdf;  
Decision n°81/2023, 22 June 2023, available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publications/decisi
on-quant-au-fond-n-81-2023.pdf. 
31 BE SA, Decision n°41/2020, 29 July 2020, available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publicatio
ns/decision-quant-au-fond-n-41-2020.pdf.  
32 BE SA, Decision n°24/2021, 19 February 2021, available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publi
cations/decision-quant-au-fond-n-24-2021.pdf;  
Decision n°110/2023 of 9 August 2023, available at https://www.gegevensbeschermingsautoriteit.be/publicati
ons/beslissing-ten-gronde-nr.-110-2023.pdf.   
33 BE SA, Decision n°21/2022, 2 February 2022, available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/public
ations/decision-quant-au-fond-n-21-2022-english.pdf. 
34 BE SA, Decision n°162/2022, 16 November 2022, available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/pu
blications/decision-quant-au-fond-n-162-2022.pdf. 

Adopted 

 

31 

actions in relation to several breaches regarding the performance of DPO duties, including by issuing 
an order to appoint a DPO in a housing cooperative. PL SA also imposed an administrative fine in 
connection with the performance of the DPO’s tasks without taking due account of the risks associated 
with  processing  operations  and  not  involving  the  DPO  in  the  processing  operations  carried  out. 
Moreover, in March 2022, PL SA developed a list of 27 questions on the status and functioning of the 
DPO  and  on the  basis  of  its  powers  under  Article  58(1)(a)  and  (e)  GDPR  addressed  it  to  selected 
controllers from both the public and private sectors35. Further, PT SA has opened several infringement 
procedures against local governments and other public bodies in relation to the lack of designation of 
DPO, issuing fines in this regard. CZ SA has also conducted audits of national ministries and concluded 
that  a  violation  of  Article  38(1)  and  38(2)  GDPR  by  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  had  occurred. 
Similarly, IT SA has taken action against controllers in the public sector, with 11 decisions adopted 
between 2021 and 2022 related to topics such as the failure to appoint a DPO or to properly publish 
or communicate the DPO contact details to the SA, and the conflict of interests with the other tasks 
assigned to the DPO36. FR SA has also taken measures towards organisations, for example, by ordering 
22 municipalities to appoint a DPO in May 2022. After assessing the compliance of public bodies in 
2020, IE SA has identified 77 entities as potentially not compliant. IE SA also issued a decision against 
a body in respect of infringements of Articles 37(1) and 37(7) GDPR37. The NL SA included the position 
of the DPO in several administrative fines on the processing of data. However, the position of the DPO 
was mostly an aggravating circumstance or a secondary or unexpected finding of an investigation and 
no standalone decision has been taken yet38. The NL SA also has meetings on a regular basis with the 
highest level of management of controllers to convey the standards regarding the position of their 
DPO.   
 
A number of actions taken prior to this CEF did not result in the issuing of fines or other sanctions. For 
example, after carrying out two waves of privacy sweeps in 2022, SI SA discovered that roughly 520 
public  bodies  failed  to  inform  the  SA  about  their  DPOs.  The  respective  organisations,  however, 
properly  informed  the  SA of  the same  and  no further  sanctions  were taken. Likewise, DK  SA  has 
opened own-volition inquiries into certain municipalities regarding their DPO’s resources and tasks in 

                                                 
35 PL SA, Verification of compliance with the provisions on data protection officer, available at 
https://archiwum.uodo.gov.pl/en/553/1325. 
36 Decision of 11 February 2021, n. 54, doc. web n. 9556625 available at 
https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/9556625; Decision of 13 May 
2021, n. 193, doc. web n. 9687954 available at https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-
display/docweb/9687954; Decision of 16 September 2021, n. 318, doc. web n. 9718134 available at 
https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/9718134; Decision of 7 April 2022, 
n. 119, doc. web n. 9773950 available at https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-
display/docweb/9773950; Decision of 28 April 2022, n. 163, doc. web n. 9777996 available at 
https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/9777996; Decision of 12 May 
2022, n. 174, doc. web n. 9781242 available at https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-
display/docweb/9781242; Decision of 9 June 2022, n. 214, doc. web n. 9794895 available at 
https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/9794895; Decision of 10 
November 2022, n. 365, doc. web n. 9834477 available at https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-
/docweb-display/docweb/9834477; Decision of 10 November 2022, n. 367, doc. web n. 9835095 available at 
https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/9835095; Decision of 10 
November 2022, n. 372, doc. web n. 9843603 available at https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-
/docweb-display/docweb/9843603; Decision of 15 December 2022, n. 423, doc. web n. 9852800 available at 
https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/9852800. 
37 IE SA, Decision IN-22-2-1, 3 May 2022, available at  
https://www.dataprotection.ie/sites/default/files/uploads/2022-05/IN-22-2-
1%20PHECC%20Decision%20Final.pdf. 
38 The fining of the Dutch tax authorities is a prime example 
https://www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/uploads/imported/besluit boete belastingdienst fsv.pdf  

Adopted 

 

32 

2019, but no need for corrective measures was identified. EE SA also terminated an investigation 
regarding the independence of a DPO by issuing a warning.  
 
As  part  of  this  CEF  action,  ten  SAs  have  initiated  –  or  are  planning  to  initiate  –  new  formal 
investigations,  or  have  been  continuing  ongoing  investigations  (AT,  DE  SA  Bavaria  for  the  private 
sector, DK, EL, FR, HR, HU, PL, LT, SE SAs). This includes asking contacted organisations to substantiate 
their answers to the questionnaire. HR SA has also initiated 417 enforcement actions. In addition, EL 
SA is conducting a formal investigation with respect to 31 public bodies and has already initiated 
proceedings in relation to the EL SA’s corrective powers, including for bodies which did not cooperate 
with it or which did not designate a DPO. SE SA has launched formal investigations that are still ongoing 
for the pool of the 48 contacted stakeholders. Further, HU SA has launched 29 new own-volition 
inquiries regarding the public bodies’ obligation to designate a DPO, the obligation to publish the 
DPO’s contact details and notify them to the SA. 
 
Even though investigations are still ongoing, it is likely that – at least in some cases, where violations 
are identified – corrective measures will be adopted, such as orders to comply or fines. However, no 
further information can be shared regarding the outcome of these cases. 

5.2  Guidelines 
  
Several SAs refer to the Guidelines on DPOs on their respective websites, while some publish general 
FAQ sections and online guidance on DPOs. 
 
Additionally, certain SAs have developed their own general and specialised guidelines on the matter. 
For instance, IE SA has published guidance on appropriate qualifications for a DPO39, on who needs a 
DPO40, on how to notify the IE SA of a DPO41 and an FAQ document on the DPO registration process42. 
It is noteworthy that BE SA has published an extensive toolkit for DPOs in 2020 that includes the 
following documents: 10 ground rules regarding the DPO43, a checklist for the DPO44 and a template 
to request the DPO’s opinion45. Moreover, BE SA published a recommendation on the appointment of 

                                                 
39 IE SA, Guidance on Appropriate Qualifications for a Data Protection Officer, July 
2019,available at https://www.dataprotection.ie/sites/default/files/uploads/2019-
07/190708%20Guidance%20on%20Appropriate%20Qualifications%20for%20a%20Data%20Protection%20Offi
cer%20%28GDPR%29.pdf. 
40 IE SA, Who Needs a DPO, available at https://www.dataprotection.ie/en/dpos/who-needs-dpo. 
41 IE SA, Notify the Data Protection Commission of your DPO, 
available at https://www.dataprotection.ie/en/organisations/know-your-obligations/data-protection-officers. 
42 IE SA, Data Protection Officer Register - Frequently Asked Questions, 
available at https://www.dataprotection.ie/sites/default/files/uploads/2022-
06/Data%20Protection%20Register%20FAQs%20Updated%20010622 0.pdf.  
43 BE SA, Les 10 règles de base concernant le délégué à la protection des données (DPO), 
available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publications/les-10-regles-de-base-concernant-le-
delegue-a-la-protection-des-donnees-dpo.pdf.   
44 BE SA, Check-list avis DPO, available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publications/check-list-
avis-dpo-general.pdf.  
45 BE SA, Demande d’avis ou demande d’informations pour le Délégué à la protection des données (DPO), 
available at https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.autoriteprotectiondon
nees.be%2Fpublications%2Fdemande-d-avis-ou-demande-d-informations-pour-le-delegue-a-la-protection-des-
donnees-dpo.docx&wdOrigin=BROWSELINK.  

Adopted 

 

33 

a DPO back in 201746. DK SA also published guidelines on DPOs47 and FR SA has a comprehensive 
reference guide for DPO-related questions48. In its own document, CY SA elaborates on the obligations 
and tasks of DPOs49. Along similar lines, SI SA has issued guidelines on recommendations and best 
practices regarding DPOs in 201850. PL SA also provided guidelines on the designation and status of 
DPO (including detailed guidance on the possibility of combining the functions of DPOs with various 
other positions)51, notifying the SA of the designation of a DPO (including the manner and deadline 
for notifying)52 and the tasks of DPOs (in particular what tasks are assigned to the DPO and which tasks 
the controller is required to carry out)53. Likewise, EE SA provides various guidelines on their website, 
such as ‘Who must appoint a DPO’54. LT SA also published a public consultation on the obligation to 
appoint a data protection officer55. The NL SA published a position paper on the designation, tasks 
and/or role of the DPO, which is available on the SA’s website56. Finally, HR SA published a short 
brochure57 about the role and tasks of DPOs. 
 

                                                 
46 BE SA, Recommandation n° 04/2017, 24 May 2017, 
available at https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/publications/recommandation-n-04-2017.pdf.  
47 DK SA, Vejledning om databeskyttelses-rådgivere, December 2017, 
available at https://www.datatilsynet.dk/Media/B/E/Databeskyttelsesr%c3%a5dgivere.pdf.  
48 FR SA, Practical Guide GDPR: Data Protection Officers, 2021, 
available at https://www.cnil.fr/sites/cnil/files/atoms/files/cnil-gdpr practical guide data-protection-
officers.pdf.  
49 CY SA, Κατευθυντήριες γραμμές σχετικά με τους υπεύθυνους προστασίας δεδομένων, 5 April 2017, 
available at https://www.dataprotection.gov.cy/dataprotection/dataprotection.nsf/EB81BC1F868BF60DC2258
20A003EF39D/$file/%CE%9A%CE%B1%CE%B8%CE%BF%CE%B4%CE%B7%CE%B3%CE%B7%CF%84%CE%B9%CE
%BA%CE%AD%CF%82%20%CE%B3%CF%81%CE%B1%CE%BC%CE%BC%CE%AD%CF%82%20%CE%B3%CE%B9%
CE%B1%20DPO%20el.pdf.  
50 SI SA, Priporočila Informacijskega pooblaščenca glede delovanja pooblaščene osebe za varstvo osebnih 
podatkov, 9 November 2018, available at https://www.ip-
rs.si/fileadmin/user upload/Pdf/novice/Priporocila IP glede delovanja DPO koncno.pdf.  
51 PL SA, Designation and status of DPO, available at https://uodo.gov.pl/pl/495. 
52 PL SA, Notifications of the President of UODO related to DPO, 
available at https://archiwum.uodo.gov.pl/pl/p/zawiadomienia-prezesa-uodo-zwiazane-z-iod. 
53 PL SA, DPO Tasks, available at https://archiwum.uodo.gov.pl/pl/p/zadania-iod. 
54 EE SA, Kes peavad määrama andmekaitsespetsialisti, 14 May 2020, 
available at https://www.aki.ee/et/eraelu-kaitse/andmekaitsespetsialist/kes-peavad-maarama-
andmekaitsespetsialisti.  
55 LT SA, Viešoji Konsultacija dėl Pareigos Paskirti Duomenų Apsaugos Pareigūną, 2017, 
available at https://vdai.lrv.lt/uploads/vdai/documents/files/Viesoji%20-%20dap 2017.pdf.  
56 Document is available via 
https://www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/uploads/imported/positionering van de fg.pdf  
57 HR SA https://azop.hr/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/brosura-Zasto-je-vazno-imenovati-sluzbenika-za-
zastitu-OP 2021 e mail-version.pdf  

Adopted 

 

34 

Some SAs have issued specific guidelines for DPOs operating in the public sector, such as IT58 and HR59 
SAs, or like the PT SA focusing on conflicts of interests60. The EDPS also published a position paper on 
the role of DPOs of the EU institutions61. Further, private sector-related guidance was provided by IT 
SA62 and LT SA, which issued a consultation on DPO’s assignment criteria63. 

5.3  Conferences and trainings 

  

Four of the participating SAs noted that they offered informal individual advice on questions related 
to DPOs. One SA offers tailor-made training to newly appointed DPOs. Moreover, multiple SAs provide 
more extensive training opportunities for DPOs, organising educational and networking events on the 
matter.  Indeed,  LI  SA  organises  an  annual  meeting/training  for  all  DPOs,  during  which  they  are 
provided with information about the SA’s work, recent legal developments and other updates. HU SA 
held a DPO Conference in 2019 based on the Guidelines on DPOs, with a video presentation on the 
tasks related to the appointment of the DPO.64 A national conference, ‘The DPO in focus’, was also 
held recently by IT SA, with its results currently under evaluation65. Similarly, NL SA held the second 
national DPO conference in 2023 called ‘Day of the DPO’. Only registered DPOs could choose from a 
wide variety of workshops and presentations held by NL SA and external experts. HR SA66 in 2023 
organised an international conference 'DPO-the job of the future', as a part of ongoing awareness-
raising campaign, encompassing monthly trainings for DPOs. CZ SA started to organise a series of 
specialised educational events in 2018, seven of which were meant specifically for DPOs employed by 
public authorities and bodies. CY SA also noted various seminars and presentations being held for both 
the private and public sectors regarding the role of the DPOs, and the public sector held at the Ministry 

                                                 
58 IT SA, Faq sul Responsabile della Protezione dei dati (RPD) in ambito pubblico (in aggiunta a quelle adottate 
dal Gruppo Art. 29), 15 December 2017,available at 
https://www.garanteprivacy.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/7322110 ; 
Provvedimento del 29 aprile 2021 - Documento di indirizzo su designazione, posizione e compiti del 
Responsabile della protezione dei dati (RPD) in ambito pubblico, 29 April 2021, available at 
https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/9589104. 
59 HR SA, Priručnik za službenike za zaštitu podataka (SZP-ove): Smjernice za službenike za zaštitu podataka u 
javnom i gotovo isključivo-javnom sektoru o tome kako osigurati usklađenost s Općom uredbom o zaštiti 
podataka Europske unijeo zaštiti podataka Europske unije, July 2019, available at: https://azop.hr/wp-
content/uploads/2023/09/DPO-prirucnik.pdf  
60 PT SA, Incompatibilidade da acumulação de funções EPD/RAI, 11 April 2023, 
available at https://www.cnpd.pt/media/xi5lsevz/2023-04-11 incompatibilidade-acumula%C3%A7%C3%A3o-
fun%C3%A7%C3%B5es-epd-rai.pdf; Relativa à avaliação do desempenho de trabalhador que seja EPD, 18 April 
2023, available at https://www.cnpd.pt/media/vy3h045x/projeto-de-
orienta%C3%A7%C3%A3o avalia%C3%A7%C3%A3o-epd.pdf. 
61 EDPS, Position paper on the role of Data Protection Officers of the EU institutions and bodies, 30 September 
2018, available at https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/18-09-30 dpo position paper en.pdf. 
62 IT SA, Faq sul Responsabile della Protezione dei Dati (RPD) in ambito privato, 26 March 2018, 
available at https://www.garanteprivacy.it/faq-sul-responsabile-della-protezione-dei-dati-rpd-in-ambito-
privato. 
63 LT SA, Rekomendacija dėl Duomenų Apsaugos Pareigūnų Skyrimo Viešajame Sektoriuje Ir Jų Veiklos 
Reglamentavimo Ypatumų, 11 June 2019, 
available at https://vdai.lrv.lt/uploads/vdai/documents/files/Rekomendacija-del-DAP-viesajame-sektroiuje-
2019-06-13.pdf. 
64 HU SA, Adatvédelmi tisztviselők 2019. évi konferenciája, available at https://naih.hu/dpo-konferencia-
2019.html#vid3. 
65 IT SA, Privacy: i Responsabili della Protezione Dati al centro del cambiamento. Giornata di confronto 
organizzata dal Garante Privacy a Bologna, 23 June 2023, 
available at https://www.gpdp.it/web/guest/home/docweb/-/docweb-display/docweb/9901692. 
66 HR SA, https://azop.hr/data-protection-day-2023-gdpr-conference-dpo-the-job-of-the-future/   

Adopted 

 

35 

of Finance. FR SA regularly holds various workshops and webinars addressed to DPOs67 and they can 
also benefit from free online training sessions.68 From 2016 to 2019, PL SA conducted a cycle of free 
training for DPOs in selected sectors, focusing on new EU data protection rules and national rules 
applicable to data processing in a specific field of activity. The EDPS holds two meetings a year with 
the DPOs of all EUIs, which aim notably to approach challenges faced by DPOs through presentations 
and interactive workshops. At the latest meeting (November 2023), EDPS dedicated one workshop to 
the position of DPOs. 
 
Notably, BE SA put forward an EU-funded project setting up an online platform to support DPOs, called 
‘DPO-Connect’69. Likewise, SI SA’s works on awareness trainings and a platform for DPO networking 
aimed at sharing knowledge and best practices among DPOs. IT SA also held regular meetings with 
various stakeholders aimed at fostering networking among respective controllers. Since 2018, FR SA 
also  offers  approved  organisations  that  issue  a  DPO  skills  certification70,  which  presents  certain 
advantages for DPO certification holders.  
 
Lastly, as part of the EDPB Support Pool of Experts initiative, an extensive DPO training programme 
was launched in 2023 in Croatia, specifically tailored for the health and educational sectors in this 
country to address the existing shortage of experienced data protection practitioners71. 

5.4  Study and research 
  
Prior to the CEF, five SAs have already conducted their own studies and questionnaires regarding 
DPOs. For example, FR SA held three editions of online research on the DPO functions between 2019 
and  2022.  The  latest  edition,  in  particular,  was  based  on  a  survey  of  1,811  DPOs,  revealing  the 
diversification of profiles of DPOs and a decrease in GDPR training72. HU SA also launched similar 
surveys in the past years in connection to its annual DPOs conferences. In 2019, SI SA published a 
report  based  on  a  survey  among  DPOs  in  public  sector,  covering  similar  issues  and  identifying 
substantial problems regarding the support provided to DPOs by the management73. Likewise, CY SA 
launched  questionnaires  in  2019  and  2020,  aimed  at  first  the  private  sector  (e.g.  supermarkets, 
insurance  companies  and  private  hospitals),  and  public  sectors  (e.g.  departments,  services,  local 
government organisations). The aim of these questionnaires was, among other things, to investigate 
the designation and tasks of the DPOs. Between 2020 and 2021, HR SA74 conducted research involving 
732 Data Protection Officers (DPOs) across both public and private sectors. Over half of the surveyed 

                                                 
67 FR SA, Agenda, available at https://www.cnil.fr/fr/actualites/agenda. 
68 FR SA, Le MOOC de la CNIL est de retour dans une nouvelle version enrichie, 27 June 2022, 
available at https://www.cnil.fr/fr/comprendre-le-rgpd/le-mooc-de-la-cnil-est-de-retour-dans-une-nouvelle-
version-enrichie. 
69 BE SA, ‘DPO-Connect’ platform, available at https://www.dpopro.be/all-about-dpo-pro/dpo-connect/. This 
paltform was successfully completed in 2022. 
70 FR SA, Certification des compétences du DPO, available at https://www.cnil.fr/fr/certification-des-
competences-du-dpo-0.  
71 Data Protection Training Programme for DPOs in Croatia’, HR SA’s website, available at  
https://azop.hr/edpb-support-pool-of-expert-project-data-protection-training-programme-for-dpos-in-
croatia/; also see EDPB Support Pool of Experts initiative, available at https://edpb.europa.eu/support-pool-
experts-spe-programme en. 
72 FR SA, Délégué à la Protection des Données, 2022, available at https://travail-
emploi.gouv.fr/IMG/pdf/synthese dpo.pdf.  
73 SI SA, Anketa med DPO v javnem sektorju, 28 January 2020, available at https://www.ip-
rs.si/fileadmin/user upload/Pdf/Porocila IP/Dan%20varstva%20OP%202020%20-
%20rezultati%20DPO%20ankete.pdf. 
74 HR SA, https://hrcak.srce.hr/file/383527   

Adopted 

 

36 

DPOs (54%) reported lacking prior experience in data protection before assuming their roles, while a 
significant majority (82%) expressed a need for additional education in this field. The majority of DPOs 
revealed minimal to no prior expertise in data protection and expressed a desire for further education 
to enhance their understanding of fundamental concepts related to personal data protection. 

5.5  Other forms of support 
  
A few SAs have also employed other relevant initiatives, such as the newsletter issued cyclically by the 
PL SA since 201975 and the electronic newsletter aimed at DPOs issued by FI SA six times a year76, by 
NL SA four times a year and by EDPS ten times a year. The EDPS77, ES SA78, FI SA79, FR SA80, NL SA and 
PL SA81 also provide a helpline or channel addressed to DPOs to assist them. 
 
6  CONCLUSION  
 
Despite  the  shortcomings  and  concerns  identified  above,  the  survey  results  are  encouraging. 
Nevertheless, they emphasise the need to strengthen the role and recognition of DPOs – and the need 
to continue promoting the importance of the DPO’s role. In order for DPOs to best ensure compliance 
with data protection requirements, controllers and processors must provide the necessary resources, 
in terms of training and budget, to allow them to properly fulfil of their tasks. SAs have acknowledged 
the added value of the coordinated work under the CEF, reporting that it has also served to make 
controllers, processors and even DPOs aware of the importance and scope of the DPO requirements 
under  GDPR.  Many  participating  SAs  are  considering  adopting  further  guidance  regarding  DPOs 
following this CEF. 
 
The present report is the state of play, at the end of 2023, of the CEF action regarding the designation 
and position of DPOs. It may need to be updated in the course of 2024 to take into account the 
progress of the procedures which have not yet been completed to date and given the issues identified, 
if the Guidelines on Data Protection Officers are further developed by the EDPB. 
 
At a time when a number of EU legislations in the digital field are being developed or have recently 
entered into force, the role of the DPOs seems to be changing. In practice, and to name just a few, it 
seems that DPOs of some organisations are internally picking up key roles under these legislations, 
such as the AI Act, the Digital Services Act, the Digital Market Act or the Data Act, and, more and more, 
are being tasked with new roles that are related to AI, ethics, data governance and data spaces. These 
new roles may reinforce some of the concerns identified above, such as the risk of conflicts of interests 
or the insufficient resources at the disposal of the DPOs. It is therefore vital that all stakeholders 
seriously consider how DPOs are being tasked, utilised and supported, to ensure that they can provide 
the best added value for everybody involved. 
 
 
 

                                                 
75 Available at: https://archiwum.uodo.gov.pl/p/archiwum-newslettera-dla-iod and at: 
https://uodo.gov.pl/pl/p/archiwum-biuletynu-dla-iod.  
76 FI SA, Tietosuojavaltuutetun toimiston sähköinen uutiskirje, available at https://tietosuoja.fi/uutiskirje.  
77 https://edps.europa.eu/data-protection/our-role-supervisor en. 
78 https://www.aepd.es/guias-y-herramientas/herramientas/canalDPD.   
79 FI SA, Puhelinneuvonta, available at https://tietosuoja.fi/puhelinneuvonta.  
80 https://www.cnil.fr/fr/saisir-la-cnil/contacter-la-cnil-standard-et-permanences-telephoniques.  
81 PL SA, Ruszyła Infolinia UODO dla IOD, available at https://archiwum.uodo.gov.pl/pl/138/720.  

Adopted 

 

37 

APPENDIX 1: NATIONAL REPORTS BY SUPERSIVORY AUTHORITIES 
 
Appendix 1.1: Consolidated survey results of participating supervisory authorities. 
 
Appendix  1.2:  National  reports  of  participating  supervisory  authorities  regarding  the  substantive 
issues identified and actions taken at national level. 

Adopted 

 

38 

