

Bonn, May 5th, 2022


Press release 7/2022


BfDI approves rules of conduct for notaries
The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (BfDI), Professor Ulrich Kelber, has approved data protection rules of conduct for notaries in Germany. It is the first federal approval.



Source: Corgarashu - Fotolia

The BfDI Professor Ulrich Kelber welcomes the result of the cooperation with the Federal Chamber of Notaries: This is a further step towards more security in the handling of personal data for all parties. Notaries receive specific guidance on data protection issues. At the same time, the rules of conduct guarantee citizens a binding, uniform and high level of security.
At its 125th General Assembly, the Federal Chamber of Notaries adopted a draft code of conduct and submitted it to the BfDI, the competent supervisory authority, for approval. In the opinion of BfDI Kelber, the rules of conduct approved today represent a successful specification of the technical and organizational regulations to be made by notaries with regard to electronic document management in particular. The rules of conduct for notaries are the first rules of conduct from the public sector.
The BfDI hopes that other associations and associations will increasingly make use of the code of conduct as an instrument in order to specify the application of the General Data Protection Regulation and thus create greater legal certainty in its application.
You can find the approved rules of conduct on the BfDI website.






contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











