THE STATE COMMISSIONER FOR DATA PROTECTION AND FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

 

 

 

 
 

PRESS RELEASE

 

 

Press Office of the State Commissioner for the
Data protection and freedom of information
dr Stefan Brink

Lautenschlagerstrasse 20
70173 Stuttgart
www.lfdi-bw.de
-------------------------------------------------- ---
Cagdas Karakurt, tel: 0711-615541-23
Email: pressestelle@lfdi.bwl.de

 

  

June 17, 2022

  Artificial intelligence and data protection: what is meant here

self-determination?

 

Series of events from July 7th to 14th in Stuttgart and

online: All events are streamed (lfdi-bw.de/ki-

2022). Who participate live on site at the events

would like to can register online on the homepage of the

State representative

Sign in

(https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ki-woche-2022/). Participation

at all events is free of charge.

The state representative Dr. Stefan Brink: “We want to join

artificial

intelligence

deal intensively. We question

Experts who want to learn and have new knowledge at their disposal

place. In this way we can also effectively address the issue of freedom

privacy

discuss in the digital world and

citizens, companies

and

public

Place

support, which is expected to be more intense in the future

artificial

intelligence and

deal with their effects

have to."

Almost every discussion about digitization eventually ends up

what is commonly referred to as artificial intelligence (AI). Yet

- 2 -

does not always seem clear what AI means exactly, where it goes to

Should be used, on what basis AI applications

are running and which data AI-supported applications actually have

require. The basic ones are still unclear

Effects of AI - how do we deal with it in society

and how do we want to do that in the future?

The landing officer for the

Data protection and freedom of information in Baden-Württemberg

of the event series “Artificial Intelligence and Data Protection:

What does self-determination mean here?” from July 7th to 14th.

The General Data Protection Regulation

(GDPR) recognizes

in the

Principle already the digital development and is therefore the

towards progress. In Europe, it offers the opportunity at the same time

Use data and protect the rights of citizens. she

has enormous potential, the data-driven economy is European

to strengthen.

The aim of the series is to better understand and learn about AI

talk about the effects they have on the freedom of citizens

to have

can. For this

looks

the

State representative

on

different topics: AI and the world of work, AI and

Society, AI and mobility, AI and health, AI and

Security, AI and feelings.

Numerous speakers, discussants and initiators

science, business, administration and culture are guests

at the theme week: Introductory speeches on Thursday, July 7th,

from 4 p.m., among others the writer, journalist and

Programmer Kathrin Passig and the philosopher Prof.in Catrin

Misselhorn from the University of Goettingen.

 

Several large Baden-

Württemberg companies.

 

The science location Baden-Württemberg also knows each other

very good with artificial

Intelligence from - and many

Scientists are happy to share their knowledge and help professionals

- 3 -

as well as laypersons in understanding often complex questions in the course of the

digital transformation. From science

come

Experts from different disciplines, among others

Prof. Felix Wichmann (Eberhard Karls University of Tübingen),

Christopfer Coenen (Karlsruher Institute for Technology KIT), Prof.

Johannes Maucher (Stuttgart Media University), Dr. janina

Loh (Stiftung Liebenau), Prof. Matthias Bethge (ELLIS Institute

Tübingen), Prof. Doris Aschenbrenner (Aalen University) and

Prof. Ralf Poscher (Max Planck Institute for Crime, Security

and law, Freiburg). Reporting from the state authorities

among others, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Economic Affairs

her work.

 

Further information:

The live stream is free for all interested parties without registration

accessible, for participation on site in Stuttgart will order

Registration requested.

Program, information about the lectures and

Discussion rounds, registration: https://www.baden-

wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/ki-woche-2022

 

 

