1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00124/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) dated October 16, 2019
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the respondent (physiotherapist who
attended the Physiotherapy Clinic, Dr. Physio) has used the data from his file in
this clinic to send you a friend request on Facebook and send you whatsapps
from your personal phone.

SECOND: On December 30, 2019, this document is transferred
claim within file E/11218/2019, to C.C.C. (DR. PHYSIO CLINIC)
work center of the claimed, requiring him so that within a month
forward to this Agency, information on the response given to the claimant by the
facts denounced, as well as the causes that have motivated the incidence and the
measures taken.

On January 15, 2020, in response to the aforementioned request, the following is stated:
Next:

In our organization we have carried out all the actions aimed at
comply with the regulations, that the necessary security measures were adopted, that
had signed written agreements with employees and freelancers on
confidentiality of the information, that the compromised data was basic, and that
only one user was affected, we request that this Agency consider
proven that our company acted with due diligence and that in no case was it
will of this organization cause harm to the user.

Consequently, no fault can be seen in our actions, since
the failure in the improper use of the data, corresponded to the autonomous physiotherapist
who treated the patient.

Disciplinary action has been taken against Mr. B.B.B.: he has been warned to
irrefutably, informing him that the next reiteration of this type of
behaviors, he will stop providing his services at the Dr. Fisio Clinic.

THIRD: On June 16, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

alleged infringement of Article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On August 10, 2020, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
impose on B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infringement of article 5.1.b) of the RGPD,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

Of the actions carried out in this proceeding and of the

documentation in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: the respondent used the personal data of the claimant, which she had
facilitated when going as a patient to a physiotherapy clinic, to send you a
friend request on Facebook and forward WhatsApp from your personal phone.

SECOND: the respondent states that the use of the telephone number of the
claimant was only for professional reasons and regarding the friend request of
Facebook states that it was not aware that it was sending such a request
to one of my patients.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

The Director of the Agency is competent to resolve this procedure.
Spanish Data Protection, in accordance with the provisions of art. 58.2 of the
RGPD and in the art. 47 and 48.1 of LOPDGDD.

II

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow the legalization of the

treatment of personal data.

For its part, article 5 of the RGPD establishes that personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party

("legality, loyalty and transparency");

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for

those that are processed ("data minimization");

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable for the erasure or rectification without delay of the personal data that is
inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) maintained in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
no longer than is necessary for the purposes of processing the personal data; the
personal data may be kept for longer periods as long as they are processed
exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, scientific research purposes or
historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89, paragraph 1, without prejudice to
the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures imposed by this
Regulation in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party ("limitation of the term
of conservation”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against their
accidental loss, destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organizational measures ("integrity and confidentiality").

The controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions

in section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

III

Therefore, it is considered that the use of the personal data of the
claimant, recorded in the database of the Clinic where the claimed person works,
to send you a friend request on Facebook and send you whatsapps from your
personal telephone, supposes the violation of the principle of “limitation of the purpose”
regulated in art. 5.1 b) of the GDPR.

IV

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;

The art. 83.5 of the RGPD establishes that infractions that affect:

“a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties pursuant to articles 12 to 22.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

v

Among the corrective powers contemplated in article 58 of the RGPD, in its
section 2 d) establishes that each supervisory authority may “order the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations are
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in a
certain manner and within a specified period…”. The imposition of this
measure is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine, as
provided in art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

SAW

On the other hand, article 83.7 of the RGPD provides that, without prejudice to the
corrective powers of the control authorities under art. 58, paragraph 2,
each Member State may lay down rules on whether and to what extent
impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies established in
that Member State.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 5.1.b)
of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: TO REQUIRE the claimed party so that within one month they certify
before this body the compliance that proceeds to the adoption of all the
measures necessary for the respondent to act in accordance with the principle of
“purpose limitation” of art. 5.1 b) of the GDPR.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

through the

  Electronic Registration of

administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

