OFFICE FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Lt. Col. Sochora 27, 170 00 Prague 7
tel .: 234 665 111, fax: 234 665 444
posta@uoou.cz, www.uoou.cz

* UOOUX00DKAEU *

 
 
 
 
 
Ref. UOOU-09633 / 18-35

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

DECISION

 
Chairwoman of the Office for Personal Data Protection as the appellate body competent under
provisions of § 10 and § 152 paragraph 2 of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, decided in accordance with the provisions
§ 152 par. 6 let. b) of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, as follows:
 
Dismissal of the party to the proceedings, the company XXXXXX, with its registered office XXXXXX, against the decision of the Office for
personal data protection ref. UOOU-09633 / 18-30 of 26 June 2019, is rejected and challenged
the decision is confirmed.
 
 

Justification

 

On the basis of an inspection carried out by the Office for Personal Data Protection (hereinafter referred to as the "Office")
at the party, XXXXXX, with its registered office at XXXXXX ('the party'),
terminated by issuing a protocol on inspection ref. UOOU-08429 / 17-33 of 26 June 2018
subsequently confirmed also within the objection proceedings, by a note of the President of the Office ref. UOOU-
08429 / 17-36 of 27 September 2018, the Office issued decision no. UOOU-09633 / 18-20 of 22.
February 2019.
 
By decision no. UOOU-09633 / 18-20 of 22 February 2019 was a party to the proceedings, except
submission of a report to the Office's inspector and reimbursement of the costs of the proceedings, imposed within the time limit to perform
specified corrective measures concerning the processing of personal data carried out under the
business activities of the party to the proceedings.
 
However, on the basis of the dissolution of the party to the proceedings, the President of the Office issued a decision no. UOOU-
09633 / 18-25 of 10 May 2019, which was the decision no. UOOU-09633 / 18-20 of
22 February 2019 annulled and the case returned to the administrative body of the first instance for a new one
discussion. This was due to the fact that the appellate body found the corrective ones imposed
measures as worded incorrectly. Subsequently, it was issued by the administrative body of the first instance
decision no. UOOU-09633 / 18-30 of 26 June 2019 ('the decision'), which was

 

1/4

imposed on the party to the proceedings, in addition to submitting a report to the Office's inspector and reimbursing the costs of the proceedings
take the following corrective action within the set timeframe:
 

AND.

II.

Ensure that the personal data of the data subject XXXXXXX is deleted for the purposes of
processing which requires the consent of the data subject.
Ensure legal titles for the processing of personal data of all data subjects against whom it is
party to the proceedings in the position of personal data controller, ie where he has determined the purpose himself
and means of processing, in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EU) No
2016/679 of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to processing
personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC (hereinafter
"General Regulation"). In the event that such security does not exist with any data subject
possible, then delete the personal data of such data subject.

III. Conclude a processing contract within the meaning of Article 28 (3) of the General Regulation with XXXXXX,
as a tied representative within the meaning of Section 15 of Act No. 170/2018 Coll., on Distribution
insurance and reinsurance, and further with XXXXXX, so as to ensure that the introduction
processors who perform tasks related to personal processing for the party to the proceedings
data will have a proper legal title.

 

services a

they are in position

personal data controller,

However, the party filed a proper appeal against the decision. In this context, he expressed above all
disagreement with the conclusion that he should be in the position of controller of personal data. Specifically
stated that insurance intermediaries (tied agents) are within the meaning of the relevant laws
sole proprietors. Therefore, they address potential clients themselves, ie they offer their own
intermediary
as
brokerage activity represents its own (tied agent) determined purpose
processing of personal data. Therefore, they, not the party to the proceedings, must have the consent of the data subject.
The tied agent becomes a processor only when he starts offering products and services
the party to the proceedings, who thus becomes the administrator. However, processing does not occur on the basis of
consent, but due to the conclusion of the contract. At this stage, however, the party to the proceedings has not processed
personal data is available, they only get to it at the moment of possible conclusion of the contract
between the client and the contractual partner of the party to the proceedings. At the time of the tied agent
and the client begin to negotiate a specific product from the portfolio of the participant in the proceedings, the administrator is a contractor
partner of the party to the proceedings, as he determines the purpose of the processing. The party to the proceedings is then
processor and tied agent has the status of a so-called sub-processor, while for these
processing, as this is a specific contract, no consent is required.
 
Furthermore, the party to the proceedings challenged the findings concerning the processing contract, given that
to the fact that, under the agency agreement, the internal regulations of the party to the proceedings
become part of the contractual arrangements between the party to the proceedings and the subordinate insurance undertakings
intermediaries. Nevertheless, the party to the proceedings has been concluding a separate contract since November 2018
on the processing of personal data, the concept of which, as he stated, has been referred to the Office. Consent form
processing of personal data used by XXXXXX in obtaining the complainant's personal data
was not a form used by the party itself. As the party does not have
personal data of potential clients, cannot be attributed to the fault of a particular
subordinated insurance intermediary. However, the party introduced for its own
associates a sample of the personal data processing consent form that they have forwarded
Office.
 

 

2/4

Finally, the party stated that the administrative body of the first instance had followed the instructions
in the decision of the President of the Office ref. UOOU-09633 / 18-25 of 10 May 2019 properly
did not settle. The decision is therefore unreviewable and unenforceable and therefore a party to the proceedings
proposed its abolition.
  
The appellate body reviewed the decision in its entirety, including the previous process
its issue and first dealt with the arguments of the party to the proceedings.
 
In that connection, it stated, first of all, that the party to the proceedings merely repeated its own
general arguments concerning the defining characteristics on the basis of which a particular entity
defines the position of the controller or processor, with this argument being appealed
the body has already settled within the reasoning of its decision ref. UOOU-09633 / 18-25 of
May 10, 2019
   
Nevertheless, it reiterates that it is the trustee, as defined in Article 4 (7) of the General Agreement
Regulation, any body which alone or jointly with others determines the purposes and means
processing of personal data and by the processor as defined in Article 4 (8) of the General Agreement
Regulation, any entity that processes personal data for controllers. So if he does any
entity, especially a tied representative in the sense of Act No. 170/2018 Coll. certain tasks for the participant
proceedings connected with the processing of personal data, the participant in the proceedings is in the position of administrator and entity,
who performs the tasks associated with the processing of personal data for him is in the position of the processor.
The purpose of the processing must be considered as determined by defining the relevant tasks.
The moment in which the controller has access to personal data is in this context
in principle indecisive, which can also be stated as regards the status of tied agents,
as independent entrepreneurs, resp. other similar entities. Of course not
excluded from the above entities involved in the processing of personal data in question
they will also be in a different position in relation to other personal data processing. In that
In this context, however, it must be remembered that, from a practical point of view, it is impossible for anyone
offered mediation services as such and these services must therefore be in a certain way
specified. If, on the basis of this specification, it was clearly excluded
provision of services of the party to the proceedings, resp. this would be clearly unrealistic, it would have to be
that in this case the party to the proceedings is not in the position of administrator. Conversely, if there is no provision
services of the party to the proceedings are fundamentally excluded, resp. These can be realistically ensured by the participant
considered the administrator. In the latter case, the consent must therefore be evidenced by the participant
management. It should also be noted that the legal title referred to in Article 6 (1) (a) (b) general
the Regulation is applicable to pre-contractual negotiations only if those negotiations have taken place
initiated at the request of the data subject and is therefore necessary if this condition is not met
have another legal title, usually represented by the consent of the data subject.
 
The party to the proceedings is then obliged to adjust the relationship with the processors in accordance with Article 28 of the General Agreement
Regulation, which is of course also possible through the application of the validity of internal rules
of the party to the proceedings to the processor, but these internal regulations must contain the requisites
prescribed by Article 28 of the General Regulation. The party must also ensure that not only
he himself, but also the processors who carry out the processing tasks for the party to the proceedings
personal data, had a proper legal title, ie proper consent
data subject. It should be added that the submission of the concept of a contract for the processing of personal data
and the concept of the data subject's consent can only be found as partial steps to comply

 

3/4

remedial measures in question. These require the implementation of the imposed measures
to remedy the relevant entities.
 
As regards the remedial action in Decision I, this requires the deletion of the decisions in question
personal data only for the purposes of processing, the fulfillment of which requires the consent of the data subject.
Therefore, this obligation does not apply to obligations imposed by special laws. Appellate body
therefore, it found that the administrative body of the first instance formulated the corrective measure I. decision
in accordance with the instructions set out in the decision no. UOOU-09633 / 18-25 of 10 May 2019.
 
Regarding corrective action II. decision, this requires securing legal titles for
processing of personal data of all data subjects against whom the party to the proceedings is in a position
the controller of personal data, ie where he has determined the purpose and means of processing. So it happened
concretization, as required by the decision no. UOOU-09633 / 18-25 of 10 May
2019. The appellate body therefore found that the administrative body of the first instance of corrective action II.
formulated the decision in accordance with the guidelines in question.
 
III. decision, this requires the conclusion of the relevant
As for corrective action
whose position vis - à - vis
processing contract with two specified entities,
was reliably classified as a relationship in the previous proceedings
processors vis-à-vis the controller. Thus, it was concretized, as required by the decision
Ref. UOOU-09633 / 18-25 of 10 May 2019. The Appellate Body therefore found that the Administrative Authority
first instance corrective action III. formulated the decision in accordance with the relevant ones
instructions.
 
The appellant therefore rejected the party's arguments and, after an overall examination
notes that it did not find any errors in the procedure of the administrative body of the first instance. Therefore
decided as set out in the operative part of this decision.
 
Lessons learned:

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 91 (1) of the Act, this decision shall be challenged
No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Procedure Code, cannot be revoked.

 
 
Prague, September 24, 2019
 
 

 

 
 
 
  
 

 

official stamp imprint

 

JUDr. Ivana Janů

chairwoman

(electronically signed)

4/4

