1/17



File No.: PS/00293/2022

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 3, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

The claim is directed against HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA
with NIF Q4500146H (hereinafter, the claimed party).

The claim is based on the fact that the claimant, who works as a healthcare professional
in the hospital center ***HOSPITAL.1, denounces that ***PUESTO.1 has sent by
e-mail several service workers a table with your personal information
(name, professional category, results of the Covid-19 tests, if they had
suffered from the disease, and if this had led to sick leave)

- The affected party provides a copy of the email, received on June 3, 2020, and
screenshot of the table attached to it.

Date on which the claimed events took place: June 3, 2020.

Relevant documentation provided by the complaining party:

- copy of the email, received on June 3, 2020, and screenshot of
the attached table.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), on March 23, 2021, said claim was transferred to
the party claimed, so that it proceeded to its analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month, of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
Public (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected on March 24, 2021 as
It is stated in the acknowledgment of receipt that is in the file.

On May 17, 2021, this Agency received a response letter
referring to various documents allegedly incorporated into the brief.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

However, since these documents are not included in the brief of
response of the claimed party, these are required, without to date these
have been forwarded.

THIRD: On June 11, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
question, by virtue of the functions assigned to the control authorities in the
article 57.1 and the powers granted in article 58.1 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), and
in accordance with the provisions of Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the
LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the following extremes:

On April 20, 2022, information was requested from the respondent by notification
mail and to the Delegate of Data Protection of the same, by electronic notification.

Both received the notifications without responding to the requests made,
Therefore, on May 18, 2022, the request for information is reiterated, which is
served on May 30, 2022.

The content of the information provided, in essence, is as follows:

“Without prejudice to what corresponds, inform the Coordination and
SESCAM inspection, taking into account the knowledge of the acquired facts
by that body through the "reserved information" processed by said Management in
its day (of which we know that there was a proposal to file by the
Instructing Inspector of the file), I will present the information that we know
following the order of the points proposed by the AEPD itself:

1.- Report of all the actions that have been carried out as a consequence
of the described incident.

(…)

That said, the heads of service and/or section of the 44 medical services that
there are more than 570 area specialists linked to this Management,
have the obligation to organize their respective medical services taking the
corresponding healthcare and organizational decisions. In this line and already in the
period immediately after the declaration of the state of alarm in the State
due to the existence of the pandemic caused by COVID-19, the heads of
medical service adopted measures in their respective services with a double
purpose:

a) Guarantee as much as possible but with total rigor, the prevention of occupational risks of
the medical, health and non-health professionals of the public employees of the
Service, avoiding COVID infections.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

b) Guarantee non-delayed continuity of care and minimize the risk of contagion
by COVID of patients. This is the case of the patients of the Oncology Service
radiotherapy that, because they are patients undergoing treatment for cancer, not only are they not
delayed, but require special care in prevention, in this case,
of contagion by COVID-19.

In this sense and for the stated purpose, it should be assessed in the context and
critical situation generated by the pandemic in which this event occurred, should
be assessed if, as understood by this Management, there was legal justification to send the
email with the instructions and/or attached documents that could be
(according to what is said) or data processing, in accordance with the provisions of article 6.1 of the
Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 27, 2016,
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of
personal information.

(…)

See the obligation imposed on this Management by articles 14 and 15 of the law
31/1995, on occupational risk prevention, as well as the function of the public service
of health with respect to the population served, in accordance with the provisions of Law 14/1986,
General Health and Law 8/2000 of Sanitary Regulation of Castilla-La Mancha; it is
In other words, the need to protect public employees and
the patients cared for.

Well, the existence of an email addressed by B.B.B. What
***POSITION.1 to the doctors of the service and the nursing supervisor, this
Management became aware through a letter dated July 21, 2020
signed by the President of the Board of Personnel of the Health Area of
*** LOCATION.1 giving an account of its existence and of an attached document
in which it is said that the names of employees of the Service of
Radiation oncology and the results of a seroprevalence study,

(…)

However, this Management was never aware of the email and its
content, nor of the document with health data that is said to have been delivered by C.C.C. to
Staff Board;

(...)

2.- Detailed description of the following points:

a) According to the verbal information provided to this Management by ***PUESTO.1, B.B.B., the
email, is used as a means of sending service instructions and
in this case, always according to its manifestation, it was directed exclusively to the
doctors and the nursing supervisor, because on the one hand the doctors are the ones who
They must know which professionals they work with and their situation regarding COVID to
prevent the contagion of patients as the doctor is directly responsible for the
patient during testing and treatment of patients; and the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

supervisor as she is the head and responsible for the nursing staff assigned to the
radiation oncology service.

However, as indicated, we do not know the content of the email.

b) If the email was sent without hiding the email addresses
e-mail from the rest of the recipient professionals, this could be due to the
following reasons:

- Be the professional email address, that is, the one used
to issue service instructions, service organization, existing news
in it, not being a private email address.

- Possible need for all recipients to know that the rest of the
recipients are also aware of the message for better organization and work
in equipment belonging to the medical and health profession.

- Because while the private email address can be considered to be
contains personal data, within the scope of SESCAM the corporate addresses of
e-mail must be known by the need for its use between the different
medical and health professionals to communicate with each other.

c) It is to be assumed that the "table" referred to, the content of which is unknown to this
Management, has not been subject to any treatment after its use, but it would be
eliminated once its purpose has been fulfilled. This has been reported to us by ***PUESTO.1
prior to the issuance of this document.

d) No specific security measures have been adopted for an event that we do not
It consists, beyond the periodic information that is transferred to all professionals
on the normative regulation of data processing.

3) If applicable, the reason why the security breach has not been reported to this
Diary.

As can be inferred from the foregoing and especially from what is referred to in point 1 of this
document, this Management was not aware of the existence of the alleged
security breach or incidents that support it according to legal regulation
existing, but in any case, as the President of the Personnel Board was informed,
of actions in the field of medical service management.

(…)

4.- If applicable, information on whether other emails have been sent
similar without a blind copy of the recipients, with or without an attached document with data
personal.

This Management has informed the dependent employees of the same that they must
take extreme precautions not to reveal personal data by any means,
not knowing at this time if there were later similar emails without

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

blind copy of the recipients, nor of course has it come to our knowledge
complaint arising from similar events.

5- Technical and organizational measures adopted to avoid, as far as possible, incidents of
security like what happened.

The events that the AEPD claims to have occurred cannot be extrapolated to a
situation aside from the serious crisis produced in all the country's hospitals that
meant its collapse and almost impossibility to provide health care. Therefore and to
outside of the information transmitted from our central structures, the facts
that are said to have occurred cannot occur again because they occurred as already
has indicated intimately linked and derived from the pandemic and the collapse
hospitable.

6.- Training plan for health personnel on data protection and
description of the procedure established for the referral of this type of
communications. Copy of the instructions addressed to the personnel in charge of your
Shipping.

Within SESCAM there is an information security committee that marks
guidelines and measures to be adopted, communicated through regular meetings
celebrated with all the Managements.

Along these lines, the ***LOCALIDAD.1 Integrated Attention Management has
developed its own online course on information security
("Information Security. Undue access"), whose deadline for submitting
Instances have already started, with the start of the course scheduled for the first few days
of the month of June 2022 and must be compulsorily completed as a day of
work for the more than 5,000 employees who currently depend on this
Management.

Prior to this, for some years our Central Services have been
organizes a course called "THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
EN EL SESCAM", lasting 25 hours, with more than six editions and access
for all SESCAM staff.”

In relation to the response of the claimed evacuated within the present
investigative actions and that has been partially transcribed in paragraphs
precedent, it should be noted that:

The documents attached to the brief have not been included in the information provided.
from the Integrated Attention Management of ***LOCALIDAD.1, with which
supposedly it is answered to the transfer of the claim.

The respondent insists that she is unaware of both the e-mail sent, and that
motivates the claim that is now being investigated, as well as the annex attached to it in the
containing data from various service workers: name, category
professional, results of the Covid-19 tests, if they had suffered from the disease,
and if this had led to sick leave.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

The following information was found from the mail analysed:

The address from which it was sent is ***EMAIL.1.

The email was addressed to ***EMAIL.2

The recipients in a copy of the mail were:

***EMAIL.3
***EMAIL.4
***EMAIL.5
***EMAIL.6
***EMAIL.7
***EMAIL.8

None of the email recipient addresses are emails
corporate of the claimed. Only the address from which the mail was sent
it is corporate.

The table attached to the mail contains the data of 40 people related to: Employee (with
Name); serological PCR test; Symptoms; sick leave; Category.

The data contained in the table affects personnel of different categories:
Receptionist, Administrative, Gauges, Auxiliary DUE, DUE, TERT, Radiophysicists and
Doctors.

Two relevant aspects emerge from the actions described above:

1.- It has been proven that on June 3, 2020 at 4:20 p.m., the
Radiotherapy Oncology Service of the hospital center ***HOSPITAL.1 sent by
e-mail several service workers a table with your personal information
(name, professional category, results of the Covid-19 tests, if they had
suffered from the disease, and if this had led to sick leave).

The address from which it was sent is ***EMAIL.1.

The email was addressed to ***EMAIL.2

The recipients in a copy of the mail were:

***EMAIL.3
***EMAIL.4
***EMAIL.5
***EMAIL.6
***EMAIL.7
***EMAIL.8

None of the email recipient addresses are emails
corporate of the claimed. Only the address from which the mail was sent
it is corporate.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

The table attached to the mail contains the data of 40 people related to: Employee (with
Name); serological PCR test; Symptoms; sick leave; Category.

2.- Regarding the breach of confidentiality, it is verified that it has not been notified to the
Spanish Data Protection Agency. There is not enough evidence
about the rest of the information regarding the gap and specifically the destination that has been
given to the data contained in the table and whether they have been deleted or not.

FIFTH: On June 2, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, article 9 of the RGPD and article
32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

SIXTH: On June 24, 2022, the entity claimed in response to the agreement
beginning of this sanctioning procedure, reiterates the statements made on
May 30, 2022, indicated in the fourth antecedent, on the occasion of the
request for information made in the phase of actions prior to the start of this
procedure, establishing the following nuances on the alleged
penalties charged:

In relation to the alleged sanction of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, the entity claimed
considers that the incorporation of the data was intended to guarantee the security
of the patients and that of the rest of the employees of the oncology and radiotherapy service.

Regarding the alleged sanction of article 9 of the RGPD, the entity claimed
considers that the disclosed information does not indicate any health data, only if the
workers as a result of having suffered from the COVID disease, had
generated or not antibodies.

Regarding the alleged sanction of article 32 of the RGPD, the entity claimed
states that it has not declared the security breach because it was not known
of it until it has become aware of this complaint.

SEVENTH: On July 8, 2022, a resolution proposal was formulated,
proposing that the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency
address a warning to the HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA, with
NIF Q4500146H, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, a second
infringement of article 9 of the RGPD typified both in article 83.5 of the RGPD and
a third infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4 of the
GDPR.

EIGHTH: On July 27, 2022, arguments are presented to the proposal for
resolution, in the same sense as in the allegations to the initial agreement, affirming
Specifically, the alleged facts are based on the following:

“.-That there was a legal obligation to act in the way that was done, for reasons of
safety and health of patients and workers of the Radiotherapy Service.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

  - That the information was given to the reduced group of doctors of the Service and
Nursing supervisor who have the responsibility to fulfill such tasks.

- That the document in question was used for a single purpose and was destroyed
later without being incorporated into a data base with a vocation for permanence.

 - That the document remained in the custody of the Personnel Board without this
Management was given transfer of the same, not being able to adopt any measure
nor communicate the alleged security breach. to exist.

 - That there was no security breach.”

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On June 3, 2020, an email is sent by the entity
claimed to several workers in which personal information appeared (name,
professional category, results of the Covid-19 tests, if they had suffered from the
illness, and if this had led to sick leave)

SECOND: On June 24, 2020, the respondent entity presents allegations
stating that their action is justified for security reasons, that the data
were relative to whether the patients had generated antibodies from having suffered
COVID, and that the security breach was not declared due to not having knowledge of the
same.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

II

The principles relating to the processing of personal data are regulated in the
Article 5 of the RGPD where it is established that “personal data will be:

“a) processed in a lawful, loyal and transparent manner in relation to the interested party (“lawfulness,
loyalty and transparency»);

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
paragraph 1, the further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

public interest, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes are not
deemed incompatible with the original purposes ("purpose limitation");

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization");

d) accurate and, if necessary, updated; all measures will be taken
reasonable to eliminate or rectify without delay the personal data that
are inaccurate with respect to the purposes for which they are processed (“accuracy”);

e) kept in a way that allows the identification of the interested parties during
longer than necessary for the purposes of the processing of personal data; the
Personal data may be kept for longer periods provided that it is
processed exclusively for archival purposes in the public interest, research purposes
scientific or historical or statistical purposes, in accordance with Article 89, paragraph 1,
without prejudice to the application of the appropriate technical and organizational measures that
This Regulation is imposed in order to protect the rights and freedoms of the
interested party (“limitation of the retention period”);

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

The data controller will be responsible for compliance with the provisions of
section 1 and able to demonstrate it (“proactive responsibility”).”

The infringement of art. 5.1.f) is typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD which provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

Article 72.1 a) of the LOPDGDD states that “according to what is established in the
article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will prescribe
after three years the infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the
articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

III

We must also take into account that article 9 of the RGPD establishes the following:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

1. The processing of personal data that reveals ethnic origin is prohibited
or racial background, political opinions, religious or philosophical convictions, or affiliation
union, and the processing of genetic data, biometric data aimed at identifying
unambiguously to a natural person, data relating to health or data relating to
sexual life or sexual orientations of a natural person.

2. Section 1 shall not apply when one of the following circumstances occurs-
following:

a) the interested party gave their explicit consent for the processing of said data
for one or more of the specified purposes, except when the Right of
the Union or the Member States establishes that the prohibition referred to in the
section 1 cannot be lifted by the interested party;

b) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of obligations and the exercise of
specific rights of the person in charge of the treatment or of the interested party in the field of
Labor law and security and social protection, to the extent that it is so authorized.
enact the Law of the Union of the Member States or a collective agreement with
under the Law of the Member States that establishes adequate guarantees of the res-
protection of the fundamental rights and interests of the interested party;

c) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
natural person, in the event that the interested party is not qualified, natural or legal,
cally, to give your consent;

d) the treatment is carried out, within the scope of its legitimate activities and with the de-
guarantees, by a foundation, an association or any other organization without
for profit, whose purpose is political, philosophical, religious or trade union, provided that the
treatment refers exclusively to current or former members of such organizations.
organizations or persons who maintain regular contact with them in relation to
its purposes and provided that the personal data is not communicated outside of them without the
consent of the interested parties;

e) the treatment refers to personal data that the interested party has made manifest-
public mind;

f) the treatment is necessary for the formulation, exercise or defense of claims.
tions or when the courts act in the exercise of their judicial function;

g) the treatment is necessary for reasons of an essential public interest, on the
basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States, which must be proportional
the objective pursued, essentially respect the right to data protection and
establish adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and rights
fundamentals of the interested party;

h) the treatment is necessary for the purposes of preventive or occupational medicine, evaluation
of the worker's work capacity, medical diagnosis, provision of assistance or
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

treatment of a health or social nature, or management of health care systems and services.
health and social care, on the basis of the Law of the Union or of the Member States.
or by virtue of a contract with a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the conditions
tions and guarantees contemplated in section 3;

i) the treatment is necessary for reasons of public interest in the field of health
such as protection against serious cross-border threats to health, or
to ensure high levels of quality and safety of healthcare and
of medicines or medical devices, on the basis of Union Law or
of the Member States to establish appropriate and specific measures to pro-
protect the rights and freedoms of the interested party, in particular professional secrecy,

 j) the processing is necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, research purposes,
scientific or historical information or statistical purposes, in accordance with article 89,
paragraph 1, on the basis of the law of the Union or of the Member States, which
must be proportional to the objective pursued, respect essentially the right to
data protection and establish adequate and specific measures to protect the
interests and fundamental rights of the interested party.

3. The personal data referred to in section 1 may be processed for the purposes cited-
two in section 2, letter h), when their treatment is carried out by a professional
subject to the obligation of professional secrecy, or under your responsibility, in accordance
with the Law of the Union or of the Member States or with the established rules
by the competent national bodies, or by any other person also subject to
also to the obligation of secrecy in accordance with the Law of the Union or of the States.
two members or of the standards established by the competent national bodies.
you.

4. Member States may maintain or introduce additional conditions, including
ive limitations, with respect to the processing of genetic data, biometric data or
health-related data.

The infringement of article 9 of the RGPD is provided for in article 83.5 of the RGPD
where it is established that:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:
a)
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

In turn, the LOPDGDD in its article 72.1.e) qualifies as a very serious infraction,
purposes of prescription, “The treatment of personal data of the categories to which
referred to in article 9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 without any of the
the circumstances provided for in said precept and in the article of this Organic Law.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

IV

Security in the processing of personal data is regulated in article 32 of the
RGPD where the following is established:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the nature
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of probability
variable and seriousness for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the responsible
The controller and the data processor will apply appropriate technical and organizational measures.
to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk, which, where appropriate, includes
yeah, among others:

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience
permanent treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to the personal data of
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and assessment of the effectiveness of the
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken
ta the risks that the treatment of data presents, in particular as a consequence
of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of personal data transmitted
stored, stored or otherwise processed, or unauthorized communication or access
two to said data.

3. Adherence to a code of conduct approved under article 40 or to a mechanism
certification body approved under article 42 may serve as an element for
demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of this
Article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
Any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and having
access to personal data can only process said data following instructions
of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of Union Law or
member states.”

The infringement of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under
the heading “General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines” has
ne:

 “The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

a) the obligations of the person in charge and of the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11, 25 to
39, 42 and 43.”

Article 73.f) of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements considered serious
has:

“According to article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, they will be considered serious and
Infractions that suppose a substantial violation will prescribe after two years.
of the articles mentioned therein, and in particular the following:

f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that result
appropriate to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk of the treatment,
in the terms required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679

v

The LOPDGDD in its article 77, Regime applicable to certain categories of
responsible or in charge of the treatment, establishes the following:

"1. The regime established in this article will be applicable to the treatment of
who are responsible or in charge:

a) The constitutional bodies or those with constitutional relevance and the institutions of
autonomous communities analogous to them.

b) The jurisdictional bodies.

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities
autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

d) Public bodies and public law entities linked or
dependent on the Public Administrations.

e) The independent administrative authorities.

f) The Bank of Spain.

g) Public law corporations when the purposes of the treatment are
related to the exercise of powers of public law.

h) Public sector foundations.

i) Public Universities.

j) The consortiums.

k) The parliamentary groups of the Cortes Generales and the Legislative Assemblies
autonomous, as well as the political groups of the Local Corporations.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this law
organic, the data protection authority that is competent will dictate
resolution sanctioning them with a warning. The resolution will establish
also the measures that should be adopted to stop the behavior or correct it.
the effects of the infraction that had been committed.

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of the
that depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and to those affected who had the condition
interested party, if any.

3. Without prejudice to what is established in the previous section, the data protection authority
data will also propose the initiation of disciplinary actions when there are
sufficient evidence for it. In this case, the procedure and the sanctions to be applied
will be those established in the legislation on disciplinary or sanctioning regime that
result of application.

Likewise, when the infractions are attributable to authorities and managers, and
proves the existence of technical reports or recommendations for the treatment that
had not been duly attended to, in the resolution imposing the
The sanction will include a reprimand with the name of the responsible position and
will order the publication in the Official State or Autonomous Gazette that
correspond.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to similar institutions
of the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued
under this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to
the entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity
of the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.

When the competence corresponds to a regional authority for the protection of
data will be, in terms of the publicity of these resolutions, to what your
specific regulations”.

SAW

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each control authority will have
of all the following corrective powers indicated below:

b) direct any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning when
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of
the measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each
particular case;

7th

A claim is filed for the referral of e-mail by the entity
claimed to several workers in which personal information appeared (name,
professional category, results of COVID-19 tests, if they had suffered from the
illness, and if this had led to sick leave)

In writing of allegations both in the initial agreement and in the proposal for
resolution, the defendant entity justifies the imputed facts alleging reasons of
public safety, and that the information provided was solely about whether some
workers had or had not generated antibodies after having suffered from COVID-19, as well
such as the impossibility of communicating the security breach due to ignorance.

Specifically, it justifies its action by alleging the following:

“.-That there was a legal obligation to act in the way that was done, for reasons of
safety and health of patients and workers of the Radiotherapy Service.

  - That the information was given to the reduced group of doctors of the Service and
Nursing supervisor who have the responsibility to fulfill such tasks.

- That the document in question was used for a single purpose and was destroyed
later without being incorporated into a data base with a vocation for permanence.

 - That the document remained in the custody of the Personnel Board without this
Management was given transfer of the same, not being able to adopt any measure
nor communicate the alleged security breach if it exists.

 - That there was no security breach.”

In accordance with the evidence available, it is found that the email
object of conflict contained a table with your personal information (name, category
professional, results of the Covid-19 tests, if they had suffered from the disease,
and if this had led to sick leave), which contravenes article 9 of the RGPD,
since the claimed entity has processed the health data of the
claimant, without being in any of the cases indicated in article 9.2 of the
RGPD, as indicated in the legal basis III.

It is also considered the commission of the infringement of article 5.1 f) of the RGPD, which
The principle of integrity and confidentiality governs, so that the data is treated in a
in such a way as to ensure adequate security of personal data, including
protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against loss,
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

accidental destruction or damage, through the application of technical measures or
appropriate organisations.

Regarding the breach of confidentiality produced, it is verified that it has not been
notified to the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

There is insufficient evidence on the rest of the information regarding the
gap and specifically the destination that has been given to the data contained in the table and if
these have been suppressed or not.

This Agency considers that the security measures of the claimed entity do not
were adequate at the time of the incident that is the subject of the claim and
must be improved because it is confirmed that they have not been sufficient to prevent
the reported facts.

Thus, this Agency considers that the claimed entity has violated the
articles 9, 5.1 f) and 32 of the RGPD, when treating health data, especially protected,
secondly for violating the principle of integrity and confidentiality, and finally
for not adopting the necessary security measures to guarantee the protection of
the personal data of your staff.

viii

The text of the resolution establishes the infractions committed and
the facts that have given rise to the violation of the regulations for the protection of
data, from which it is clearly inferred what measures to adopt, without prejudice
that the type of specific procedures, mechanisms or instruments for
implement them corresponds to the sanctioned party, since it is responsible for the
treatment who fully knows your organization and has to decide, based on the
proactive responsibility and risk approach, how to comply with the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA, with
NIF Q4500146H, for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

SECOND: IMPOSE the HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA, with
NIF Q4500146H, for an infringement of article 9 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.5 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

THIRD: IMPOSE the HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA, with
NIF Q4500146H, for an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article
83.4 of the RGPD, a sanction of warning.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

FOURTH: THAT the HEALTH SERVICE OF CASTILLA LA MANCHA adopt the
necessary measures for proper treatment of health data, as well as
measures that guarantee the integrity, confidentiality and security of the data
treated personal, as well as the provision of means of proof accrediting the
compliance with the requirements within a month from the notification of the
this resolution.

FIFTH: COMMUNICATE this resolution to the Ombudsman, in accordance
with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

SIXTH: NOTIFY this resolution to the CASTILLA HEALTH SERVICE
THE STAIN.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

938-120722

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

