 
 
 
 
 
Our ref.: 11.17.001.009.232 
 
 

7 September 2023 

Failure to Fully Comply to an Erasure Request by Freedom Finance Europe 

Decision 

 

Ltd 

 

 
1.  A  complaint  was  lodged  with  the  Federal  Commissioner  for  Data  Protection 
and  Freedom  of  Information  in  Germany  (Berlin  SA)  against  Freedom  Finance 
Europe  Ltd  (the  Controller),  whose  main  establishment  is  in  Cyprus.  Moreover, 
the  complaint  was  subsequently  transmitted  to  the  Office  of  the  Commissioner 
for Personal Data Protection (Cyprus SA) on 18/9/2021, in line with Article 56 of 
the General Data Protection Regulation. 
 
2.  On  the  basis  of  the  above,  the  Commissioner  for  Personal  Data  Protection 
(the Commissioner) is acting as the lead authority in this matter. In the course of 
the investigation, other EU countries  were identified as being concerned by this 
case. 
 
 
Description of the case 
 
3.1.  The  complaint  involved  the  Controller’s  failure  to  comply  with  the 
complainant’s  erasure  request  (article  17  of  the  GDPR)  submitted  to  Freedom 
Finance Germany TT GmbH in Germany which is a subsidiary of the Controller. 
 
3.2.  In  her  complaint,  the  complainant  stated  that  she  initiated  a  registration 
process, through the Controller’s webpage (https://freedomfinance.eu/), but did not 
complete  the  verification  required.  Following  this,  she  sent  an  email  on 
26/01/2021 at clients@freedom24.com requesting the deletion of her data. 
 
3.3.  On  10/02/2021  she  sent  a  reminder  to  the  same  email  address  and  on 
15/2/2021  she  got  a  reply  from  an  investment  consultant  of  Freedom  Finance 
Germany  TT  GmbH,  informing  her  that  the  verification  process  was  not 
completed and asking her whether she needed any assistance. She replied back 
the  same  day,  requesting  again  the  deletion  of  her  data,  together  with  a 
corresponding email confirmation. As she claims, she never got a reply. 
 
3.4.  Upon  receiving  the  complaint,  the  Berlin  SA  requested  the  views  of  the 
subsidiary  in  Germany  on  22/6/2021.  The  Berlin  SA  received  a  reply  by  the 
subsidiary on 22/07/2021, through which they were informed, the following:  
 

a)  the  complainant’s  emails  were  lost,  and  therefore  not  answered,  due  to 
address 

communication 

email 

via 

abundance 

the 
of 
clients@freedom24.com, 

b)  the complainant’s personal data that were processed were her name and 

email address, 

c)  the data were processed for the purpose of opening a demo account, and 
by  opening  a  demo  account,  the  data  subject  agreed  to  the  Controller’s 
General Terms and Conditions and consequently to the data processing, 

d)  the complainant’s data was deleted immediately upon receipt of the Berlin 

SA’s letter. 

e)  the  complainant’s  erasure  request  was  not  sent  to  the  appropriate  email 
address. More specifically, the email address clients@freedom24.com, is 
used for initial customer communication, to which the DPO does not have 
access.  Additionally,  data  protection  enquiries  should  be  sent  to  email 
address 
the  DPO’s  direct  email  address 
dpo@ffineu.eu, as it is clearly stated in the Privacy Policy. 

info@ffineu.eu  or 

to 

 
 
Investigation by Cyprus SA 
 
4.1.  The  Commissioner’s  Office  contacted  the  Controller  on  19/4/2022,  and 
requested their views on the matter raised by the complainant as also proof that 
the complainant’s personal data had been deleted.  
 
4.2. In their reply, the Controller confirmed that the  complainant’s personal data 
was  deleted  on  25/6/2021  and  provided  proof  in  the  form  of  a  screenshot  from 
the  relevant  database,  which  was  deemed  satisfactory.  The  Controller  also 
provided the relevant email communication where the complainant was informed 
of  the  erasure.  It  is  noted  that  the  email  was  dated  25/4/2022,  i.e.  after  the 
reception of the email from the Commissioner’s Office. 
 
4.3. The  privacy  policy,  which  can  be  found  on  the  Controller’s  website,  clearly 
states the appropriate email to be used for data protection matters. Despite this, 
the  complainant  sent  her  requests  to  an  email  that  is  used  for  initial  customer 
communication and receives a large number of emails daily. 
 
 
Preliminary Decision 
 
5. On 31 May 2023, the Commissioner issued a Preliminary Decision regarding 
the controller’s failure to notify the complainant of the erasure of his data. In the 
said Preliminary Decision, the Commissioner concluded that  
 

a.  Although it is evident that the controller did not have any intention of not 
satisfying  the  complainant’s  request,  the  controller  did  not  notify  the 
complainant  of the erasure  of  his data  within  the  timeframe  set  in  Article 
12(3) GDPR. 

b.  The  Controller  should  have  implemented  appropriate  technical  and 
organizational measures to ensure that all emails received by employees 

relating  to  data  subject  rights  are  acknowledged  without  further  delay  in 
accordance with Article 24(1) GDPR. 

 
6.  The  controller’s  legal  representative  responded  on  26  June  2023  to  the 
Preliminary Decision and stated, inter alia, that: 

a.  The personal data concerned, only included the name and email address 
of the complainant and was not submitted to further processing other than 
the initial registration. 

b.  Instead  of  sending  his  request  to  the  email  addresses  mentioned  in  the 
privacy  policy,  the  complainant  used  the  German  subsidiary's  email 
address  clients@freedom24.com  along  with  the personal email  of one  of 
the employees of the German subsidiary. 

c.  With the deletion of said data the complainant did not have access to his 
profile thus it can reasonably be assumed that the controller provided the 
complainant with a clear message that the data was deleted. 

d.  The  inadvertent  mistake  of  the  employees  of  the  German  subsidiary  is 
found in not forwarding the deletion request to the relevant  employees in 
time.  

 
7.  In  addition  to  the  above,  the  controller’s  legal  representative  included  the 
following mitigating factors to be taken into account by the Commissioner: 

a.  the  nature,  gravity  and  duration  of  the  breach,  taking  into  account  the 
nature,  extent  or  purpose  of  the  relevant  processing,  as  well  as  the 
number of data subjects affected by the breach and the degree of damage 
suffered by them. 

b.  The absence of any element that implies bad intentions from the controller 

towards the complainant. 

c.  The absence of any precedent at the expense of the controller. 
d.  The  absence  of  any  benefit  ultimately  derived  by  the  controller  from  the 

alleged infringement. 

e.  The immediate compliance with the  complainant’s request once received 

f. 

from a non-generic corporate e-mail. 
the non-notification of the action to the complainant was an isolated event 
that,  in  the  light  of  the  company's  experience,  the  procedure  has  now 
been modified as the Commissioner states in her letter to prevent it from 
happening again. 

g.  the  full  cooperation  with  the  competent  Control  Authority  to  remedy  the 

violation and limit its possible adverse effects. 

h.  the  intention  compliance  by  immediately  improving  the  company's 

regulations in order to prevent a recurrence of the incident. 

 
 
 
Legal framework 
 
8.1. Article 12: Transparent information, communication and modalities for 
the exercise of the rights of the data subject. 
 
Pursuant to article 12(3) of the GDPR The controller shall provide information on 
action  taken  on  a  request  under  Articles  15  to  22  to  the  data  subject  without 

undue  delay  and  in  any  event  within  one  month  of  receipt  of  the  request.  That 
period  may  be  extended  by  two  further  months  where  necessary,  taking  into 
account  the  complexity  and  number  of  the  requests.  The  controller  shall  inform 
the  data  subject  of  any  such  extension  within  one  month  of  receipt  of  the 
request, together with the reasons for the delay. Where the data subject makes 
the  request  by  electronic  form  means,  the  information  shall  be  provided  by 
electronic  means  where  possible,  unless  otherwise  requested  by  the  data 
subject. 
 
8.2. Article 17: Right to erasure (‘right to be forgotten’) 
 
“1.   The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller the erasure 
of  personal  data  concerning  him  or  her  without  undue  delay  and  the  controller 
shall have the obligation to erase personal data without undue delay where one 
of the following grounds applies: 
 
(a) the  personal  data  are  no  longer  necessary  in  relation  to  the  purposes  for 
which they were collected or otherwise processed; 
 
(b) the  data  subject  withdraws  consent  on  which  the  processing  is  based 
according to point (a) of Article 6(1), or point (a) of Article 9(2), and where there 
is no other legal ground for the processing; 
 
(c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there 
are  no  overriding  legitimate  grounds  for  the  processing,  or  the  data  subject 
objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(2); 
 
(d) the personal data have been unlawfully processed; 
 
(e) the personal data have to be erased for compliance with a legal obligation in 
Union or Member State law to which the controller is subject; 
 
(f)  the  personal  data  have  been  collected  in  relation  to  the  offer  of  information 
society services referred to in Article 8(1). 
…” 
 
8.3. Pursuant to article 24(1) of the GDPR Taking into account the nature, 
scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risks of varying 
likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the 
controller shall implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
ensure and to be able to demonstrate that processing is performed in 
accordance with this Regulation. Those measures shall be reviewed and 
updated where necessary. 
 
8.4. Pursuant to Article 58(2) GDPR, Each supervisory authority shall have all 
of the following corrective powers: 

in 

to 

this  paragraph,  depending  on 

…(b)to  issue  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  a  processor  where  processing 
operations have infringed provisions of this Regulation; 
…(i)  to  impose  an  administrative  fine  pursuant  to  Article  83,  in  addition  to,  or 
instead  of  measures  referred 
the 
circumstances of each individual case; 
 
 
Views of the Commissioner 
 
9.  Firstly,  following  the  controller’s  claim  in  paragraph  6(c),  I  consider  that  it 
cannot be assumed that the inability of the complainant to sign in to this account, 
is  considered  as  a  notification 
that  his  erasure  request  was  satisfied. 
Furthermore,  the  information  provided  following  Article  12(3)  GDPR  should  be 
transmitted in a clear and concise manner. 

the 

reviewing 

the  controller’s 

information  provided  by 

10.  After 
legal 
representative, in their response to my Preliminary Decision, specifically the fact 
that  the  controller  appreciates  that  there  was  a  lack  of  appropriate  attention  to 
the  complainant’s  request,  I  consider  that  the  controller  understands  that  the 
request could have been satisfied from the first instance if the support staff was 
properly  trained  in  tackling  GDPR  requests  in  a  timely  manner.  I  also  consider 
that the controller did not intend to act in a way that would negatively affect the 
complainant’s rights and freedoms. 

11. Despite this, considering that the GDPR had been enforced for more than  2 
years at the time of the complainant’s first erasure request, the controller should 
have had the appropriate measures in place for  at least satisfying data subject 
rights set out in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR. Moreover, the complainant should 
have been informed of the satisfaction of his request without delay. 

 

Decision 

12. Having regard to all the above information, and based on the powers vested 
in me by Articles 58 and 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and article 24(b) of 
National Law 125(I)/2018, I conclude that there is an infringement by  Freedom 
Finance  Europe  Ltd  of  Article  12(3)  and  24(1)  of  the  GDPR,  for  the  reasons 
mentioned above. 

13.  Moreover,  following  an  infringement  of  Article  12(3)  and  24(1)  GDPR,  as 
explained  above,  under  the  provisions  of  Article  83  of  the  GDPR,  I  take  into 
account the following mitigating (1-3) and aggravating (4-6) factors: 
 
1. That there is no previous violation by the controller of the GDPR. 

2. The controller satisfied the erasure request as soon as the mistake was 
realised. 
3. The measures taken after the incident to ensure that all staff is appropriately 
trained in handling GDPR matters. 
4. The controller only became aware of the erasure request after being notified of 
the complaint by my the Berlin SA. 
5. The complainant’s request was not satisfied within the legal timeframe. 
6. The lack of appropriate procedures and measures for handling data subject 
rights at the time of the request. 
 
 
14. In view of the above and on the basis of the powers conferred on  me by the 
provisions of subparagraph (b) of paragraph (2) of Article 58 of the GDPR, I have 
decided  to  issue  a  reprimand  to  Freedom  Finance  Europe  Ltd  for  the 
infringement mentioned in paragraph 12 above. In the event of a recurrence of a 
similar infringement within 12 months from today, this Decision may be counted 
against the company. 
 
 
 
Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 

