1/18

 Procedure No.: PS/00124/2019

938-300320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and in

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: CLAIMANT 1, (as shown in the ANNEX) Local Police of Alcobendas,
dated 10/1/2018, filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, against the CITY COUNCIL OF ALCOBENDAS with NIF P2800600E (hereinafter,
the claimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are that it was initiated by Decree
***DECREE.1 of ***DATE.1, communicated on 05/10/2018, a disciplinary procedure.
It states that the file was initiated by a report made by a superior on the day
04/25/2018, directed, from the Sub-inspector to the Mayor of the Local Police of
Alcobendas. In said report, the Sub-inspector indicates that he performs the data comparison of the
activity sheet filled out by the claimant, with its position through a sign of
GPS, and which attaches the GPS positioning to said report.

Provides:

- Letter from the Sub-inspector to the claimant dated 04/11/2018, “clarification of activity file” “In
In relation to the activity sheet of 03/21 in which he provided a tow truck service, he requests that
“Make a report detailing the service provided and the place where it was done during the
said day between 3:30 p.m. and 4:10 p.m. and between 5:50 p.m. and 6:45 p.m.

-Response letter from the claimant dated 04/13/2018, indicating that it cannot qualify
accuracy and that the activity sheet was delivered at the end of the service.

-Partial copy of the document, "internal communication from the Sub-Inspector to the Mayor", of
04/25/2018. It begins: “The undersigned informs that on 03/22 the agent
(complainant) turned to me to ask for an explanation of why
was performing more crane services than other colleagues, since he was doubting
of their professionalism…” “At that time and since it is not a unit that depends
habitually of the undersigned, I indicated to the Agent that I would review his activity records and
the work carried out to see what was happening with it”. “That when making the comparison
of the data that he had put in his activity file, of the services that were
recorded in GESPOL, as well as its positioning through GPS signals, only
observed that on two of the occasions in which his activity record shows that he is
carrying out services, first in the area of the Camino Ancho schools and in the second
occasion reviewing places for the disabled in shopping centres, which is one of the
tasks assigned to the crane, being the service that was appointed to this Agent
in the reading of the service in the first of the occasions, he had not left the base
urbanizations and in the second, its positioning goes outside the municipal area "Que
Attached to this report is the GPS positioning of the agent, as well as a copy of the
record of activity carried out on 03/21”. A graph of the route in which they are seen is attached.
the streets and date and time of the aforementioned day 03/21/2018, from 4:10 p.m. and in the 5:50 p.m. slot
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/18

at 18.45. In it, the date on which it was extracted or its date cannot be determined.
request and delivery.

-Copy completed by hand, of physical points, route and hours that the claimant
made, showing your identification number (activity sheet).

-On 06/08/2018, a statement of objections is formulated against the claimant received on
06/11/2018. Provides a copy signed by the Instructor "by Decree of ***DATE.1", It contains
indicates as most prominent:

a) According to the activity sheet prepared by the police officer, he provided towing services on the day
03/21/2018 in the time slot from 3:30 p.m. to 4:10 p.m. in a location that indicated, and according to the
IDATAWEB program, GPS tracking, the information provided by the equipment
communications personnel of the aforementioned police station him in other locations. The same
takes place in the time slot 17.50 to 18.45.

b)

“The facts may constitute a serious disciplinary offense typified in the
article 8.b) of the Organic Law 4/2010 of 05/20 of the disciplinary regime of the CNP.”
“disobedience to hierarchical superiors or those responsible for the service due to
legitimate orders or instructions given by them, unless they constitute an infringement
manifest of the legal system.”

-Copy of allegations to the statement of objections, dated 06/26/2018, in which, among others, it states
manifesting the use for disciplinary purposes of the information of the IDATAWEB program
provided by the personal communications team, aimed at security aspects,
organization and coordination. It states that: “The sanction derives from the disciplinary file
initiated at the expense of the Sub-inspector, who uses the GPS to locate the
movements of the Agent and thus be able to demonstrate a breach of his orders” “The
use of the GPS positioning data of the station that carries the referred
Agent, they should not have been used to support a disciplinary file to the
itself and was not warned at any time that it could be used in this way. The
Agent must have been previously informed expressly and precisely of the use and
consequences of obtaining geolocator data, understanding that they must be
taken into account to ensure its integrity and security, and aimed at aspects of
security, organization and coordination”.

- Letter from the Instructor on the opening of the testing period, dated 09/05/2018, in which
requests, among others, from the company INDRA a report on the operation of the system
IDATAWEB on 03/21/2018, as well as the route made by the PDA 282 assigned to the
claimant 1, in order to incorporate it into the file.

-Copy of sheet of 05/27/2014, delivery to the claimant of communications equipment:
SAMSUNG OMNIA II brand terminal.

SECOND: After receiving the claim, on 11/12/2018, the General Subdirectorate of
Data Inspection proceeded, in accordance with art. 9.4 of Royal Decree-Law 5/2018
(BOE 07/30/2018) to the transfer of the claim to the claimed, urging that it give
response to CLAIMANT 1 and detailing what happened and the measures implemented
so that facts such as those object of the claim were not repeated.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/18

THIRD: On 12/4/2018, a letter was received from claimant 1 in which he stated
that it has received a written response from the respondent and that it indicates that the purpose
of the IDATAWEB system is the management and coordination of patrols and agents, but in no
case it becomes clear that it can be used for disciplinary use.

In addition, it is pointed out that the use of the system is "well known throughout the
staff”, although there is still no information on how to exercise the rights affected in the
system use.

Attached is a copy of the aforementioned response, ref. ***REFERENCE.1, from which
It also appears that the system was implemented in the local police of Alcobendas in April-
May 2011 and serves for the "management and coordination of patrols and agents deployed by
the municipality for rapid management of resources and prompt assistance in case of need” ”The
system records the GPS positions or cell of associated mobile terminals, and that with the
registration of the station by the agent their positions are transmitted to be displayed on a
map for the management of resources and their visualization in the computer terminals of the
Communications Center and in the personal computers of the police commanders
local. ”The data stored by the system is pseudonymized, and thus the system only
collects the data of date and time, speed, those referring to GPS and GSM positions and
always related to an alias, not being possible to individualize by person not
authorized”.

The defendant argues with several sentences related to labor control
concluding that “there has been no violation of their rights in relation to the protection
of your personal data”

FOURTH: On 12/10/2018, a letter is received from the respondent indicating:

They provide a copy of the delivery of the document ref. ***REFERENCE.1 sent to claimant

a)
1, and the delivery signed by him on 11/26/2018.

They provide DPD report of 11/30/2018 in which it is recommended to the Directorate of the
b)
local police, who as responsible for the data processing of the devices of
geolocation, “give all agents an informative document on the use of the
device for work purposes, and that there is a record of having made this
communication". They provide a letter of referral of the aforementioned report with the same date, to the
CLAIMANT 1.

FIFTH: On 01/16/2019 a letter is received from CLAIMANT 1 indicating that
has also received the report from the DPD and that the disciplinary procedure continues
Attaching a copy of the proposed resolution.

SIXTH: On 03/14/2019, the director of the AEPD admits the claim for processing.

SEVENTH: On 10/2/2019, CLAIMANT 1 requests to be informed about the
file, and a copy of the resolution is sent with exit record: 024128/2019.
(notification returned by mail) that corresponds according to the file with the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/18

notification of admission agreement for processing, and a copy of the aforementioned agreement is sent,
detailing that when the initiation agreement is signed and resolved, you will be informed.
EIGHTH: On 11/4/2019, the Director of the AEPD agrees:

“INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE of WARNING to the
CITY COUNCIL OF ALCOBENDAS, for the alleged infringement of article 5.1.b) of the
RGPD, as indicated in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD.”

NINTH: On 11/12/2019, a letter is received from CLAIMANT 2,- identified in
GENERAL ANNEX-, which provides services as Local Police in Alcobendas,
stating:

By Decree ***DECREE.2 of ***DATE.2

a)
file was notified
sanctioning When requesting a copy of it, verify the existence of an incident report
extracted by the Sub-inspector addressed to the head of the Local Police, attaching photographs of his
geographic positioning carried out through a GPS called IDATAWEB. East
written was raised to the Councilor for Human Resources for the opening of the file.
Complaint that you have not been informed of the existence of the geolocation device of
your personal communications equipment, nor the use of treatment that could be given, in
this case to be sanctioned, obtaining the data before starting the procedure
discipline itself.
b)
local before the claimed, in the case of CLAIMANT 1

He alludes to having knowledge of the name and surname of another claimant, police

Provide a copy of:

1- Notification of disciplinary file, of *** DATE.2 that begins "having
this department had knowledge of what happened on 05/17/2019 in relation to
the delay in the coverage they had to carry out on the College ***COLEGIO.1 at
16:40 the patrol that carried out the service with the indicative ***INDICATIVE.1 composed of
the agent ***AGENT.1. The claimant, and the failure to account for the same in
report required by a superior. In the SEEN section, it is indicated "The report issued
on the incidence in which the non-compliance in time of the service is evidenced
programmed, as well as its disobedience when accounting for it in the required report
by his superior."
He is charged with a serious offense under article 8.b of Organic Law 4/2010 "disobedience to
hierarchical superiors or those responsible for the service due to orders or
legitimate instructions given by those, unless they constitute a manifest infringement of the
legal system."

1- Document dated 05/17/2019, internal communication from the Sub-Inspector referred to by the
claimant to the Chief Intendant of the local police entitled "incidence report on shift
agents…(one who is neither claimant 2, nor 1, and ***AGENT.1, the
claimant 2).

It is indicated that "I inform that today 05/17/2019, "performing the reading of
north base service, being 15:40 through the station, the undersigned has indicated
agents ***AGENT.2 and ***AGENT.1 who had their activity sheet based on
north, an order to go to the School at 16:40 ***COLEGIO.1. “Being 16:41
being the subscriber in the school *** COLEGIO.1 when not observing the patrol there,
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/18

It requires information about their location and why they were not in the aforementioned school. That
***AGENT.2's response is that they were addressing him. that being the
16:45 when checking the controls that the patrol was not regulating the school, and that the
influx of parents to pick up their children was great, they proceed to regulate it themselves
until the arrival of the patrol at 16:53-as shown by the IDATAWEB.

That the undersigned requests the agent ***AGENT.1 verbally at the school a
report in writing, on the reason for his delay, returning to reiterate it by mesh to the
agent ***AGENT.2, delivering these a report, which does not say the reason for their delay.
That at 6:26 p.m. the Deputy Inspector meets with agents ***AGENTE.2 and ***AGENTE.1
to collect the aforementioned report, and when rereading it and verifying that it does not state the reason for its
delay, the agent ***AGENTE.2 indicates that he is not going to put it, since being a report
officer, if I said something against you, it would violate your right to be presumed innocent. What in
At that moment, the Sub-inspector tells them that they are disobeying an order, since
requested was that they explain the reason why they were not at the indicated time
in the aforementioned school, and not that he had assigned them the same. Agents are informed that
knowledge of what happened will be given for the appropriate purposes. That to this report
attached, the positioning of the agents, where it is observed that they leave the base
urbanizations at 4:43 p.m. and who arrive at school ***COLEGIO.1 at 4:53 p.m.
arriving late at the entrusted school and not knowing what these agents have done
from its incorporation to the service until its departure from urbanizations base 1 hour 13
minutes later".

It is accompanied by a graphic map of the IDATAWEB route of the agent ***AGENTE.1 of
05/17/2019 from 3:30 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. with dates and times and geographical points in which
It was.

2- Email of 05/28/2019 sending from Police Headquarters to City Hall
Alcobendas, with a pdf file “incidence report” of claimant 2 with the literal “Se
attached report on what happened on 05/17/2019 in the agents' work shift,
summoning claimant 2 to proceed with the opening of a disciplinary file to
both agents, appointing instructor.”

3- Copy of claimant 2's document presented at the Alcobendas town hall on
09/17/2019 proposing evidence, urging, among others, that “the moment
exact date in which the IDATAWEB images that appear in the document were requested and obtained.
report issued as document 4 "as well as certifying the purpose of the treatment of
GPS location data.

CLAIMANT 2's claim was also transferred to the respondent and resulted
admitted for processing on 01/13/2020. For keeping identity in the object of the claim,
both claims are joined and resolved in this proceeding.

TENTH: On 11/19/2019, the respondent reiterates what has already been stated, adding:

The reason for the use of the GPS by the respondent “was to demonstrate the
1)
compliance with a superior hierarchical order. The facts reported by
CLAIMANT 1, occur before the entry into force of the RGPD, and must apply
the LOPD and its Regulations.
2) In application of article 90 of the LOPDGDD, the city council has adapted to the
new regulations, approving General Order 027/ of 11/16/2019 of the Chief Intendant of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/18

local police. The sheet of the order is provided in which it is indicated "... in relation to the new
communications equipment delivered, it is reported:

“The prohibition of using personal communications equipment for purposes other than
to the development of work activity and outside of their working day. Also, it is reported
that the system allows location in real time of the agent's position, of the rest of the
users, and from communication equipment of the other users that at that moment
are connected, that the positions are stored in a database included in the
treatment "local police interventions" that allows to consult positions and routes of
each user during the working day from the start of the equipment to its
disconnection. The person responsible for the treatment is indicated, and that the purpose of the device is the
control, management and coordination of patrols and agents deployed by the municipality to
optimization of resources and prompt assistance in case of need and as part of management of
employment relationship, data may be extracted from the device in order to verify the
fulfillment of the entrusted tasks and verify if they coincide with the work reports and
activity sheets and may even be used for disciplinary purposes in case of
verify noncompliance. You are informed of the possibility of exercising your rights and
refers to additional information on the web page it indicates.

3) It also provides a copy of the document signed by an agent in order to prove that
has communicated to those affected. In the copy he provides, it is a form dated the
11/15/2019, by hand by the agent, in which it is reported in the same terms as
contains in the general order mentioned.

ELEVENTH: On 03/06/2020, it is AGREED to start a practice period of
tests, practicing the following:

1. The claims filed by the two claimants are deemed reproduced, and
your documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the Services of
Inspection

2. Likewise, it is considered reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement
of initiation presented by the claimed, and the documentation that accompanies them.

3. A claimed person is also requested to report or provide within a period of ten days:

What does the system that records the positioning of the vehicles consist of and how does it work?
a)
agents who provide service in that entity (what are the personal teams of
communications that are delivered to the agent and serve to control their activity in the
moments of the events denounced by the claimants, allude to PDA, terminal brand
SAMSUNG OMNIA II. On the other hand, in General Order 027/ of 11/16/2019 of the Mayor
local police chief mentions the “new communications equipment delivered”, and
It is questioned whether these are the same used in the case of the claimants.

It is also requested that they clarify whether the system allows each agent to be able to
real time, visualize from their computers where the rest of the users who
at that time they are serving, or if that work is performed by another
agent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/18

b)
In their allegations they indicate that the reason for using the geolocation system of the
GPS system was to "demonstrate non-compliance with an order from a hierarchical superior", if
although this is not clear from the brief of 04/25/2018, regarding CLAIMANT 1 “communiqué
interior of the Subinspector to the Intendant”, begins: “The undersigned informs that on 03/22, the
agent (claimant) approached me for an explanation of why
was performing more crane services than other colleagues, since he was doubting
of their professionalism…” “At that time and since it is not a unit that depends
habitually of the undersigned, I indicated to the Agent that I would review his activity records and
the work carried out to see what was happening with it”. “That when making the comparison
of the data that he had put in his activity file, of the services that were
recorded in GESPOL, as well as its positioning through GPS signals, you are requested
that report:

1-Detail, why if the complaint of CLAIMANT 1, motivated because "he was
assigned many crane services, more than their colleagues”, instead of valuing
the number, adequacy and reason why you perform so many services or if you exceed the
average compared to other troops, gave rise to the verification of superior to
through checks of the effective performance of the service, if this is usual and if
They consider it proportionate. Indicate with the regulations in force, including the order
approved, if it allows in any case to collect data from the device in
In any case, if the causes have to be motivated or if there is discretion, and detail if there is
or there could be other measures to achieve the end of the fulfillment of the orders
given to agents.

2-Indicate if it existed at the time of the complaints analyzed here,
a protocol by which a data request was requested from the location system of
GPS, which people and in what cases could request such data.

c)
Regarding the report of the GPS positioning of the CLAIMANT agent 1 with the
copy of the activity sheet carried out on 03/21”, they are asked to report the date on
that was requested, a copy of the document sent for it, a copy of the response document with the
Report for dates and reasons.

Regarding the report of the GPS positioning of the CLAIMANT agent 1 and the
d)
having provided a copy of the "Instructor's Letter on the opening of the period of
evidence, dated 09/05/2018, in which it requests, among others, from the company INDRA a report on
operation of the IDATAWEB system on 03/21/2018, as well as the tour carried out by the
PDA 282 assigned to the claimant, in order to incorporate it into the file”, you are requested
copy of it.

and)
 If there was any type of document delivered to the troops in which they had been
informed before the days that the alleged violations took place, of the means of
verification of the provision of the service, request of said means, cases in which
can request, official who has to request it, and exercise of rights to said data.

After the period granted, no response was received.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/18

TWELFTH: On 07/27/2020, a resolution proposal is issued, with the literal:

“That by the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, the
with a WARNING to the CITY COUNCIL OF ALCOBENDAS, for an infraction of the
Article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, in accordance with article 83.5 of the RGPD”.

Against them, no allegations are received.

PROVEN FACTS:

CLAIMANT 1 addressed his boss, Deputy Inspector, on 03/22/2018 a request for
1)
explanation of why he was performing more towing services than others
companions. The Sub-Inspector told him that he would review his activity sheets and the work
carried out to see what was happening with it”. This check was made
comparing what claimant 1 had put in his activity sheet for the day's services
03/21/2018, recorded in the GESPOL application, with its positioning through a signal
GPS. With said comparison, the Sub-inspector observes that what he declares in the record is not
corresponds to what the GPS marks that has recorded the route of the day from 4:00 p.m.
10 and from 5:50 p.m. to 6:45 p.m. For this reason, a disciplinary procedure was initiated against
CLAIMANT 1 who counts as antecedents the written internal communication of the
Deputy Inspector to the Mayor of 04/25/2018 in which he explains the above.

The activity sheet completed by CLAIMANT 1 indicates that he provided services of
crane on 03/21/2018 in the time slot from 3:30 p.m. to 4:10 p.m. in a location that indicated, and
According to the IDATAWEB program, GPS tracking, the information provided by the
personal communications equipment of the aforementioned police officer places him in other locations. It
The same happens in the time slot from 5:50 p.m. to 6:45 p.m.

The respondent has not provided specific information requested in tests on the equipment
communications personnel assigned to the agents that allows their data to be correlated in
the provision of the service with its geographical position.

two)
CLAIMANT 1 stated that the respondent had not informed him of the end of control
that could be given to the GPS system operated by the IDATAWEB system through the
assigned individual communications equipment, and the respondent has not provided accreditation
having done it.

3)
Within the disciplinary procedure for CLAIMANT 1, the instructor in the investigation phase
tests that start on 09/05/2018, incorporates the monitoring data to said agent of the day
03/21/2018.

4)
On the occasion of the transfer of the claim of CLAIMANT 1 to the respondent, the latter
sent a letter informing you that the purpose of the IDATAWEB system is the management and
coordination of patrols and agents, the use of the system implemented in 2011 is "notoriously
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/18

known by the entire staff", and which is used for the "management and coordination of patrols and
agents deployed by the municipality for rapid management of resources and prompt assistance
in case of need” ”The system registers the GPS positions or terminal cell
associated mobile phones, and that with the registration of the station by the agent, their
positions to be displayed on a map for resource management and display on
the computer terminals of the Communications Center and in the personal computers
of the local police commands.”, “Storing the data.”.

5)
The respondent provided on 12/10/2018 a DPD report dated 11/30/2018 in which
recommends to the local Police Directorate, as the data controller of
geolocation devices, which “provides all agents with an informative document
information on the use of the device for work purposes, and that there is a record of
have made this communication”. CLAIMANT 2 also a local police filed a claim
tion on 11/12/2019, which was moved to claimed. After the signing of the agreement to start this
procedure is processed together with the same to keep identity in the object of the claim-
tion. The facts that it reveals are that a disciplinary procedure was opened
on 06/13/2019 due to events that occurred in his provision of service on 05/17/2019 and
contributing his boss, Sub-inspector to the chief quartermaster, the GPS tracking of his
personal communications equipment at the time the service was being rendered
that day, to verify compliance with the traffic regulation order in one hour and
in a certain place, "although the undersigned of the report was in that place, he verifies
with the IDATAWEB GPS tracking system that CLAIMANT 2 arrives at 16:53 at di-
what a point The tracking system reveals that they had to be at a point assigned to
at 4:40 p.m., and left a different one at 4:43 p.m. There are graphics of the map with the route
in the time slot 3:30 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. A report on these events was sent from Headquarters
police to the City Council on 05/28/2019 in order to initiate a disciplinary procedure.
CLAIMANT 2 states that all this without being previously informed of
said use, effects, and rights associated with it.

6)
The defendant approved in the course of the procedure, General Order 27, of
11/16/2019, on the use of personal communications equipment and its location, detailing
that the data is stored in a database included in the “interventional” treatment
nes local police” that allows to consult positions and routes of each user during the
working day. The data controller is informed, and that the purpose of the provision
tive is the control, management and coordination of patrols and agents deployed by the municipality
for optimization of resources and prompt assistance in case of need and as part of management
tion of the employment relationship, data may be extracted from the device in order to
bar the fulfillment of the entrusted tasks and verify if they coincide with the parts of
work and activity sheets and may even be used for disciplinary purposes in case
to verify its non-compliance”. You are informed of the possibility of exercising your rights
and refers to additional information on the website.

It also provides a copy of the document signed by an agent in order to prove that

has communicated to those affected, dated 11/15/2019.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/18

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority
of control, and according to what is established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

STC 292/2000 states that "... the content of the fundamental right to protection
of data consists of a power of disposal and control over personal data that empowers
empowers the person to decide which of their data they provide to a third party (...) these powers
disposition and control over personal data, which constitute part of the fundamental right
fundamental to data protection is legally specified in the power to consent to the
collection, obtaining and access to personal data, its subsequent storage and
treatment, as well as its use or possible uses, by a third party, be it the State or an individual",
that is, to know who, why and what data is going to be processed. This allows the affected party, in this
In this case, local police officers exercise control over your personal data (self-determination).
informational nation). The duty of prior information forms part of the essential content of the
right to data protection, since it is an essential complement to the treatment
data The duty of information on the use and destination of personal data is in-
intimately linked to the general principle of legal authorization of the treatment and exercise
of rights, because if its purpose and recipients are not known, it can hardly be exercised.
You have no right to your own data.

Article 90 of the LOPDGDD indicates

"1. Employers may process the data obtained through data collection systems.
geolocation for the exercise of control functions of workers or
public employees provided for, respectively, in article 20.3 of the Statute of the
Workers and in the legislation of public function, provided that these functions are exercised
within its legal framework and with its inherent limits.

2. Previously, employers must inform expressly, clearly and
unequivocal to public workers or employees and, where appropriate, to their representatives,
about the existence and characteristics of these devices. They must also
inform them about the possible exercise of the rights of access, rectification, limitation
of treatment and suppression.”

The same information and authorization system is established in the

video surveillance (article 89) of said law.

In this case, according to the respondent, the purpose of data processing was initially
especially in 2011 in the management and coordination of patrols and agents, and it was the purpose that
still had when the two claimants are verified through the system
IDATAWEB GPS with their individual teams assigned in the performance of their tasks
professionals.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/18

This purpose, as can be seen, is related to the security of surveillance, but
no eventual use of labor control was established as a measure for compliance with
the assigned tasks. This jump occurs during the procedure, implanting
this control in November 2019.

Usually, before the irruption of technologies, the facts could be verified.
two usually by witnesses, documents, etc., assessing statements in the processes
and extension of it. Currently, technologies such as video surveillance, geolocation,
tion, use of mobile phones are configured as technological elements of great importance
in the development of the employment relationship, especially to verify the functions to be developed
llar and as a means of controlling the obligations assigned to employees. Therefore, the re-
results of employing in the past tense, once the events have occurred, systems proceeding
technology such as previous recordings of images, sounds, fingerprints, data of
geolocation etc that correlate what happened earlier in the procedure must
be evaluated considering various aspects. The use of information technologies multiplies
the possibilities of labor control, and obliges to take into account the respect for the rights
workers, to adopt control measures that are proportional and
respect their dignity, their right to data protection and their private life. The absence of
The same will determine a possible treatment not adjusted to the protection regulations of
data.

The availability of technology as a means of verifying compliance with the
tion in this case in the provision of public services requires as a counterweight some
guarantees so that its use and purpose is not unilateral depending on what is convenient, or in
contrary to expectations, and without taking into account the rights of those affected, among
that also plays a certain role “legal certainty, responsibility and inter-
dictation of the arbitrariness of public powers” together with the fundamental right in the use
of information technology or technological measures on said control of the provision that
gen the literal of article 18.4 of the Spanish constitution: "The law will limit the use of information
to guarantee the honor and personal and family privacy of citizens and the
full exercise of their rights.”

Undoubtedly, it is not the same to verify behaviors such as labor ones, with
non-technological, than with traditional means. To specify, for example, the version of a
employee can use the images of a video surveillance camera or a system
GPS, and can be considered a test that verifies the version of the administration,
gaining a quasi-full conviction with his own means contrary to that of the employee. It
can be carried out considering in the first place that it is the employer who can impose
the means to control the activity, taking into account in its implementation the proportion
tionality of the measure in the system and the dignity of the employees. Thus, you must prove
in your analyzes if you are going to use the system to control all the time of the labor delivery.
general, or only some services, if it is to be used to reprimand all kinds of behavior, from
from mild to very serious, or only those considered to be a risk to public safety.
ca, defining the situations, and motivating and arguing the reasons, there may be
areas in which surveillance throughout the day and to control all kinds of public orders
it might not be proportional.

Regarding the type of data related to the employee and work,
mediating location services, control of its development, it is worth taking as a point
of departure what is indicated in principle number 16 of the Annex of the Recommendation of the Committee
of Ministers of the Council of Europe, adopted on 04/01/2015, and referred to the treatment of
personal data in the employment context. It states that the equipment that
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/18

reveals the location of employees should only be entered if
proves its need for the purpose pursued by the employer and its use is not
lead to continuous monitoring of workers, since this
monitoring should not be the purpose, but only an indirect consequence of the
adoption of a measure conducive to guaranteeing the protection of production, health or
safety or the efficient functioning of the organization.

As part of the proportionality in the implementation of the system, the person in charge
must justify the specific reasons for the introduction of the control measures that
intends to implement, and whether or not it is possible to use other less intrusive measures for said con-
control, dealing with the balance between the interests of the employer and the right of the employees.
two to the respect of his private life. It must assess and document that the implantation in the
positions that it considers applicable is adequate, necessary and suitable, in relation to the fi-
nes.

In the implementation of the system it can be considered that the use of the system is more
necessary if, for example, a motivation is previously established to request them covered
in the internal regulatory protocol that can be created, when there are security reasons
publishes related to the actions of the agents, meaning that it can
The use of the system will not be necessary or proportional when there are other means of verification.
tion of the facts, or when they can be proven with other instances.

As an example, the constitutional court in its Judgment no. 98/2000 of 10/04
indicates: “business organizational faculties are limited by the rights
fundamental rights of the worker, the employer being obliged to respect those (STC
292/1993, of October 18, F F. 4). This Court has been maintaining that, since the
prevalence of such rights, their limitation by business powers only
may derive from the fact that the very nature of the contracted work implies the
restriction of the right

Also, as indicated by the STC number 29/2013 of 11/02 in its foundation of
law VII: "In conclusion, it should not be forgotten that we have invariably established and
constant that the business faculties are limited by the rights
fundamental (among many others, SSTC 98/2000, of 04/10, F. 7, or 308/2000, of 12/18, F.
4). For this reason, just as the public interest in sanctioning administrative infractions is
insufficient for the Administration to steal from the interested party information related to the
file and its data, as provided in art. 5.1 and 2 LOPD (STC 292/2000, of 11/30, F. 18),
Nor can the private interest of the employer justify that the processing of data is
employee against the worker without prior information about the labor control placed
in practice. In the workplace, to express it in other terms, there is no reason that
tolerate the limitation of the right to information that integrates the ordinary coverage of the right
fundamental of art. 18.4 EC. Therefore, it will not be enough that the processing of data
is in principle lawful, because it is protected by the Law (arts. 6.2 LOPD and 20 LET), or that
may eventually result, in the specific case in question, proportionate to the end
pursued; business control in this way, rather, although it may occur, it must
also ensure proper prior information.”

The establishment and use of the data processing system derived from the GPS system
for labor control additionally leads to the establishment of technical and organizational measures
for the processing of data for said purposes. This would include, among others, from protocols

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/18

to keep the files longer than the time originally established, until the motivations
recording requests by the specific person in charge of requesting the recordings.
data and deliver them, as well as data security measures.

If employees are not informed of the tools used to control their
performance, if several can be used, if those that the employer considers can be used
convenient without giving a specific reason, employees have no expectation
about said use or about its consequences, being able to violate your right to protection
of data.

Once the system for the use of recordings has been implemented, with the desirable inter-
vention of employee representatives, and their technical and organizational measures
having informed those affected, the system can be used for the modalities and
purposes established therein

III

In the present case there is a processing of personal data of the
two claimants in the development of their professional work provided to the public employer
co, City Hall in this case through the communications equipment they use, without
that it be proven that the agents were informed of the eventual use of the system so as to
verify compliance with the tasks performed, its original purpose being a different one.
In the first case, the fact that the claimant files a complaint for entrusting
always the same service, and the unrelated superior evaluates the performance
pleo of the service and verifies the movements of part of their working day

In the second case, it can also be seen that in order to verify the absence of the place where
claimant 2 was to provide services, there were other personnel who could attest that no
was there, using the GPS system to also verify where it was exactly to
that time, and what time it arrives at the assigned point. The collection and use of data of personal data
In addition, it must respect the principles of adequacy and relevance, limiting the current
tion to the specific purposes for which they were collected, of which it must be in-
formed the holder from which they are collected.

It is verified that until recent dates, the fulfillment of the development of the tasks
entrusted in the relationship with the agents was not verifiable by technical means
as accurate as GPS can be, as it can be now. However this
interference in the affectation of the right of data protection to the affected subjects without
having been previously informed, and there being a different enabled use, it means that the
claimed incurs in the infringement of article 5.1.b) of the RGPD that
points out:

"1. The personal data will be:

b) collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes, and will not be processed
subsequently in a manner incompatible with those purposes; according to article 89,
section 1, further processing of personal data for archiving purposes in the interest
public, scientific and historical research purposes or statistical purposes shall not be considered
incompatible with the original purposes (“purpose limitation”);”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/18

In this case, it did not appear at the time the events occurred, that the
use of geolocation data is used to corroborate service reports or organizations
dens entrusted to the agents and here they have been used, in ways not proportionate
by the factual assumptions in which they occur, before opening any immediate action
chest related to punishable acts, and not being provided for that control
labor produced, for which the double infraction object of the claims is accredited.
This data of correspondence between position through the GPS of the employees in the
performance of their functions have been obtained, and preserved over time to treat, process
file and resolve disciplinary files.

It should also be noted that it is not disputed whether the agents knew that the
system had GPS, which possibly they did know, but the use of the system was
can do, after the guarantees established by the LOPDGDD. The reasonable expectations
employees cannot foresee that said system will be used for the
control of labor activity, counting as it is accredited, that originally its purposes
they are the security of the patrols and the people. Much less than before a complaint of being-
vice the aforementioned system is used.

The use of the geolocation of the communications system assigned to the
claimant, like the rest of the Agents, can be used as a means of security for the
people, agents or the vehicle, in critical or emergency situations or to
service organization. However, in this case it has been used in the workplace
with consequences of initiation of disciplinary proceedings, when the data is extracted by a
higher and then integrate into the aforementioned procedure. This has been done for obvious purposes.
to verify compliance with the instructions and support the sanction more strongly.

The claimants had not been informed prior to extraction that
correlates your device with your data and your movements in the provision of the service
that could be subject to such verification, nor the manner of exercising their rights and other
of elements that are prescribed in article 13 of the RGPD associated with said treatment.
If it had been decided that in order to control the development of the activity by the
agents, control of geographical positions in relation to the fulfillment of orders is
accurate or convenient the GPS system, should have been informed of the use,
consequences, purpose, treatment and rights.

In addition, reference is made to the necessary compliance with principle 21 of the
Recommendation, which imposes the obligation of prior information on employees and the
consult their representatives, without prejudice to the necessary compliance with the rest of the
requirements mentioned in it.

It is worth remembering what is indicated in this regard by the jurisprudence, which comes
appreciating as one of the criteria to determine if there is room for corporate control over
the means provided to the worker, the prior information or warning of the
employer to the worker about their possibilities of use and control. Thus, it is worth mentioning the
Judgment of the Labor Chamber, Section 1 of the Supreme Court of 09/26/2007,
appeal for the unification of doctrine no. 966/2006, which highlights the
Next:

 “ Therefore, what the company must do in accordance with the requirements of good
faith is to establish previously the rules of use of those means - with application of
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/18

absolute or partial prohibitions – and inform workers that there will be control
and of the means to be applied in order to verify the correctness of the uses, as well
as well as the measures to be adopted in its case to guarantee the effective
labor use of the medium when necessary, without prejudice to the possible application of
other preventive measures, such as the exclusion of certain connections. Of
this way, if the medium is used for private uses contrary to these prohibitions and
with knowledge of the applicable controls and measures, it cannot be understood that, by
carry out the control, "a reasonable expectation of privacy" has been violated in the
terms established by the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights of
June 25, 1997 (Halford case) and April 3, 2007 (Copland case) to assess the
existence of an injury of article 8 of the European Convention for the protection of
human rights .

All this means that the geolocation of the worker should not constitute
only one purpose of data processing, being necessary to specify what is the
specific purpose that justifies this treatment, which will allow us to analyze whether the collection of
data that implies a special interference in the activity of the employee is adjusted
to the principle of proportionality

IV

Regarding the allegation of the respondent that the facts of claimant 1 occurred
before the entry into force of the RGPD, specifically for the conduct carried out that is
analyzes of 03/22/2018, it must be indicated that the treatment of the data in this case
has permanence from the moment there is constancy, not only because the
deputy inspector requested these data, without knowing the date, because he has not collaborated in the
clarification of the facts in the testing period, but because it is proven that
incorporated into the file by the instructor on 09/05/2018 and continues to have effects in the
same.

v

 Article 58.2 b) and d) of the RGPD provides the following: “Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with a warning
when the treatment operations have violated the provisions of this
Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, in accordance with
a certain way and within a specified period;

The imposition of this measure is compatible with the sanction of warning, according to

The provisions of the art. 83.2 of the GDPR.

       Article 83.5.a) of the RGPD indicates

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/18

a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the turnover
global annual total of the previous financial year, choosing the highest amount:

the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

a)
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

Article 77.2 of the LOPDDD deals with the prescription of the infraction, which

indicates:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

a)
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Article 83.7 of the RGPD indicates:

“Without prejudice to the corrective powers of the control authorities under the
Article 58(2), each Member State may lay down rules on whether it can,
and to what extent, impose administrative fines on authorities and public bodies
established in that Member State.

The Spanish legal system has chosen not to sanction with a fine those
public entities, as indicated in article 77.1. c) and 2. 4. 5. and 6. of the
LOPDDGG:

"1. The regime established in this article will apply to the treatments that are
responsible or in charge:

c) The General Administration of the State, the Administrations of the communities

autonomous and the entities that make up the Local Administration.

2. When those responsible or in charge listed in section 1 committed
any of the infractions referred to in articles 72 to 74 of this organic law,
the data protection authority that is competent will issue a resolution sanctioning
to them with warning. The resolution will also establish the measures that
appropriate to adopt so that the conduct ceases or the effects of the infraction are corrected.
would have committed

The resolution will be notified to the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, to the body of which
depends hierarchically, where appropriate, and those affected who had the status of
interested, if any.

4. The data protection authority must be notified of the resolutions that
fall in relation to the measures and actions referred to in the sections
previous.

5. They will be communicated to the Ombudsman or, where appropriate, to the analogous institutions of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/18

the autonomous communities the actions carried out and the resolutions issued to the
protection of this article.

6. When the competent authority is the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
this will publish on its website with due separation the resolutions referring to the
entities of section 1 of this article, with express indication of the identity of the
responsible or in charge of the treatment that had committed the infraction.”

           Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and the infringement is proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE the CITY COUNCIL OF ALCOBENDAS, with NIF P2800600E, by
an infringement of article 5.1.b) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 a) of the RGPD, a
penalty fine.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the CITY COUNCIL OF ALCOBENDAS,
attached GENERAL ANNEX.

THIRD
 
in accordance with the provisions of article 77.5 of the LOPDGDD.

 : COMMUNICATE this resolution to the OMBUDSMAN, of

FOURTH: In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the
This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of
the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director of
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month from the day
following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court, with
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the fourth additional provision
of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious-administrative Jurisdiction,
within two months from the day following the notification of this act,
according to the provisions of article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
the firm decision may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the interested party
states its intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal. If this is the
In this case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact in writing addressed to
the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through the Registry
Electronic Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through
any of the other records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of 1
october. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation that accredits the
effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency did not have
knowledge of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two
months from the day following the notification of this resolution, I would consider
The precautionary suspension has ended.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/18

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

GENERAL ANNEX

claimant 1 AAA

Claimant 2 B.B.B.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

