  Wednesday, November 20th, 2019 2: Press releases Video surveillance in the gym – not in the changing rooms! Sports enthusiasts and fitness fans keep complaining to the state commissioner for data protection, Marit Hansen, about video cameras in fitness studios. A few years ago, their agency, the Independent State Center for Data Protection (ULD), audited four fitness studios in Schleswig-Holstein. For all four gyms, the ULD determined that the video surveillance of some areas violated data protection law and subsequently banned the surveillance of these areas in June 2017. The operator of the fitness chain filed a lawsuit against the ULD's orders. In the meantime, the cameras continued to be used. On November 19, 2019, the Administrative Court of Schleswig heard the cases and dismissed the lawsuits. This means: As soon as the judgment is final, the operator must implement the requirements of the orders. Video cameras in changing rooms, on training areas and in common areas are affected. Hansen comments: “Not every video camera is illegal, but they have absolutely no place in the changing rooms where athletes change. At that time, our testing team took a close look at the cameras and evaluated them. After the current confirmation by the administrative court, I expect a speedy implementation of the data protection requirements. The following applies: Observation and recording by video cameras impairs privacy - here operators must always take into account the interests of the people that are worthy of protection. www.datenschutzzentrum.de/uploads/praxisreihe/Praxisreihe-5-Videoueberwachung.pdf If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Holstenstrasse 98, 24103 Kiel
Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223
Email: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de
Tags for this article: news, press releases, sports, videoArticles with similar topics: E-prescription procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure