13/12/2022
Processing of personal data related to the tracking technologies used on the libraries' website Keywords: Tracking technology information Data transfer Legal basis: decision in accordance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation Diary number: 4672/161/22
Decision of the Deputy Data Protection Commissioner in the case of legality of processing, security of processing, built-in and default data protection, information of data subjects and transfer of personal data to third countries
Thing
Processing of personal data related to the tracking technologies used on the libraries' website
Registrar
Helmet libraries in the capital region: Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa and the city of Kauniainen
Statement received from the registrar
With a request for clarification dated June 7, 2022, the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner has asked the libraries of the capital region for clarification on the tracking technologies used on the Helmet.fi website.
The cities of Helsinki, Espoo and Kauniainen have issued a joint written report on the matter on 23 June 2022. The city of Vantaa has issued its own report with the same content on June 21, 2022.
In their report, the data controllers have said that in addition to essential cookies, such as cookies used for reserving material and renewing loans, the Helmet website uses tracking technologies whose purpose is visitor tracking and website development.
According to the report, Google Analytics and Matomo are used as analytics cookies, and Google Analytics has only been used on content pages, not in the material search or in the user's My Information section. According to the report, it has been decided to stop using Google Analytics.
Information about website tracking technologies has been available to registrants on the Helmet.fi website under the "About the site" link. Tracking technologies are described under the heading "Cookies" as follows:
"The website uses so-called cookies ("cookies"). Cookies can be used to collect information, for example, from which page you have moved to the address, which of our www pages you have browsed and when, which browser you are using, what is your screen resolution and operating system, and what is your computer's IP address that is, from which internet address the information you send comes from and where it is received.
Some of the cookies used on the Helmet website are cookies that are necessary for the operation of the service, which enable, for example, the reservation of material and the renewal of loans. You cannot block essential cookies.
We also use, for example, statistical cookies on the website for website development. You can reject these and other cookies that are not necessary for using the service using the cookie tool. You can modify your own cookie choices at any time. Go to cookie settings."
Behind the "About the site" link is a link to the customer register of Helmet libraries, where it is stated regarding data transfers that "Some of the service providers also operate outside the EU or EEA".
On August 4, 2022, Helmet libraries supplemented the report given in June 2022. According to the registrants, tracking technologies will be removed from the Helmet.fi website between August and September, and Google Analytics will be replaced by Matomo's service.
On applicable legislation
The General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and the Council (General Data Protection Regulation) has been applied since May 25, 2018. As a regulation, the legislation is immediately applicable law in the member states. The Data Protection Regulation contains national leeway, on the basis of which national legislation can be used to supplement and clarify matters specifically defined in the regulation. The general data protection regulation is specified in the national data protection act (1050/2018).
Article 5(1)(a) of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the principle of transparency. The principle requires that personal data is processed transparently from the point of view of the data subject. Article 5(1)(a) of the General Data Protection Regulation also provides for the principle of legality, according to which personal data must be processed in accordance with the law. The principle of transparency and the principle of compliance with the law are part of the requirement of built-in and default data protection (Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation), which is the starting point of the General Data Protection Regulation. The realization of built-in and default data protection requires that the data controller implements data protection principles, such as the principle of transparency and the principle of compliance with the law, effectively.
In the introductory paragraph 39 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the following is stated about the requirement for the transparency of personal data processing: The processing of personal data should be legal and appropriate. It should be transparent for natural persons how personal data concerning them is collected and used, and how they are accessed or processed in another way, as well as clear about the extent to which personal data is processed or is to be processed. In accordance with the principle of transparency, information and communication related to the processing of personal data must be easily accessible and understandable and must use clear and simple language. This principle applies in particular to data subjects' information about the identity of the data controller and the purposes of the processing, as well as additional information that ensures the appropriateness and transparency of the processing of the natural persons in question, as well as their right to receive confirmation and notification of the processing of their personal data. Natural persons should be informed about the risks, rules, safeguards and rights related to the processing of personal data and how they can exercise their rights regarding such processing. In particular, the specific purposes of processing personal data should be determined and announced in connection with the collection of personal data unambiguously and in accordance with the law.
Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the legality of processing. According to the article, the processing of personal data is legal only if and only to the extent that at least one of the conditions listed in paragraph 1 of the article, such as the existence of the consent of the registered person, is met.
Articles 12–14 of the General Data Protection Regulation provide for informing data subjects, the implementation of which falls under the duties of the data controller. By informing registrants about the processing of personal data, the controller also implements the principle of transparency in Article 5(1)(a) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation stipulates the information to be provided when personal data is collected from the data subject. According to paragraph 1 of the article, when collecting personal data concerning him from the registered person, the controller must, when the personal data is obtained, provide the registered person with all the information according to Article 13, paragraph 1, subparagraphs a-f. This information includes, for example, information about the recipients or groups of recipients of personal data (subsection e), as well as, as the case may be, information that the controller intends to transfer personal data to a third country or an international organization, and information about the existence or absence of a Commission decision on the adequacy of data protection, or in the case of 46 or 47 the transfer referred to in Article or the second subparagraph of Article 49, paragraph 1, information about suitable or appropriate safeguards and how to obtain a copy of them or where they have been made available (subsection e). According to Article 2, subsection a, data subjects must also be provided with information about the retention period of personal data, or if that is not possible, the criteria for determining this period.
Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for built-in and default data protection. According to paragraph 1 of the article, taking into account the latest technology and implementation costs, as well as the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the varying probability and seriousness of the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons caused by the processing, the controller must, in connection with determining the processing methods and the processing itself, effectively implement data protection principles such as data minimization appropriate technical and organizational measures. According to paragraph 2 of the article, the controller must implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure that by default only personal data necessary for each specific purpose of the processing is processed.
Article 32 of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the security of processing. According to paragraph 1 of the article, taking into account the latest technology and implementation costs, the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, which vary in their probability and severity, the controller and the personal data processor must implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of security corresponding to the risk. According to paragraph 2 of the article, when assessing the appropriate level of security, special attention must be paid to the risks involved in the processing, especially due to the accidental or illegal destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access to personal data of transferred, stored or otherwise processed personal data.
Article 44 of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the general principle regarding transfers of personal data. According to the article, the transfer of personal data that is processed or is intended to be processed after transfer to a third country or an international organization is only carried out if the controller and the processor of personal data comply with the conditions established in Chapter V of the General Data Protection Regulation, and unless other provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation arise ; this also applies to the onward transfer of personal data from the third country or international organization in question to another third country or another international organization. All provisions of Chapter V of the General Data Protection Regulation must be applied to ensure that the level of protection of personal data of natural persons guaranteed by the General Data Protection Regulation is not compromised.
Article 45 of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the transfer of personal data based on a decision on the adequacy of data protection. According to paragraph 1 of the article, the transfer of personal data to a third country or an international organization can be carried out if the Commission has decided that the said third country or region of the third country or one or more specific sectors or the said international organization ensures an adequate level of data protection. No special permission is required for such a transfer.
Article 46 of the General Data Protection Regulation provides for the transfer of personal data to a third country or international organization, applying appropriate protective measures. If a decision in accordance with Article 45, paragraph 3 of the General Data Protection Regulation has not been made, the controller or personal data processor may transfer personal data to a third country or international organization only if the controller or personal data processor in question has taken appropriate protective measures and if the data subjects have enforceable rights and effective legal remedies. Sections 2 and 3 of the article describe what appropriate protective measures can be.
About the power of the data protection officer in cookie matters
The saving of cookies and other data describing the use of the service on the user's terminal device and the use of this data is regulated in § 205 of the Act on Electronic Communication Services (917/2014). Compliance with this provision is monitored by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom (see § 303.1 of the Act on Electronic Communications Services). Competence to take a position on, for example, whether cookies could have been stored on the user's terminal device and what kind of cookies the user's consent must be obtained, therefore belongs to the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom.
The Data Protection Commissioner supervises compliance with data protection regulations. For example, the supervision of the processing of personal data collected with the help of tracking technologies used on the website is the responsibility of the data protection commissioner's office.
The term "further processing" is used in this decision to clearly highlight the division of responsibilities for the processing of personal data following the acquisition and storage of consent related to website tracking technologies, such as cookies. Further processing is supervised by the data protection commissioner's office.
A legal issue
The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner assesses and resolves the matter on the basis of the aforementioned General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the Data Protection Act (1050/2018).
The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner must resolve:
1) Whether the data controllers had a valid processing basis in accordance with Article 6 of the General Data Protection Regulation for the further processing of personal data collected through website tracking technologies, and whether the data controllers' procedure in these respects was in accordance with the legality principle and built-in data protection requirements (Article 5(1)(a) and Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation 1) in accordance with
2) Has the data controller's procedure for handling data retrieval information been in accordance with Articles 25 and 32 of the General Data Protection Regulation in the parts assessed in this decision.
3) Whether informing the data subjects about the processing of personal data related to the use of website tracking technologies, including international data transfers, was in accordance with Article 5(1)(a), Article 13 and Article 25(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
4) Whether the data controllers' procedure for international data transfers was in accordance with Articles 44 and 46 of the General Data Protection Regulation, and whether there was a valid reason for the transfer of personal data to the United States.
Decision of the Deputy Data Protection Commissioner
Decision
Helmet libraries have not had a legal basis for processing personal data for the further processing of personal data collected through tracking technologies on the Helmet.fi website, but have processed this personal data, for example for the purpose of developing websites, without a legal basis for processing (violated articles: 5(1)(a), 6(1) and 25 (1)).
Helmet libraries' procedure regarding the processing of material search data has also not been in accordance with data protection regulations, but Helmet libraries have acted in such a way that material search data could have been leaked to third parties (violated articles: Article 25 and 32, paragraphs 1 and 2).
Helmet libraries have also insufficiently informed registrants about the processing of personal data related to the tracking technologies used on the Helmet.fi website, including data transfers to third countries (violated articles: 5(1)(a), Article 13(1) and (2), Article 25(1)), and there has not been a legal basis for the transfer of personal data to the United States in the absence of additional protective measures (violated articles: 44 and 46).
The registrants are given an order in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2, subparagraph d of the General Data Protection Regulation to destroy the personal data they have collected through website tracking technologies in respect of those data subjects whose personal data have been stored or used in different ways after their collection without a legal basis for processing. This provision also extends to personal data collected through tracking technologies transferred to the United States without a valid basis for transfer. In addition, the registrants are ordered to bring the processing operations in line with the data protection regulations regarding the information of the data subjects and to ensure that the information of the data subjects about the processing of personal data related to tracking technologies (including data transfers) meets the requirements of the data protection regulations.
Helmet libraries must submit to the data protection commissioner's office a report on the measures taken as a result of this order no later than February 15, 2022, unless this decision is appealed.
Since the Helmet libraries have announced that they will immediately take measures to remove tracking technologies from the Helmet.fi website, the deputy data protection commissioner does not give the data controllers an order in this decision regarding the termination of the processing of personal data related to the use of tracking technologies and the suspension of data transfers.
The registrants are given a notice in accordance with Article 58, paragraph 2, subparagraph b of the General Data Protection Regulation regarding personal data processing activities that violate the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. With their procedure, the controllers have violated Article 5(1)(a), Article 6(1), Article 13, paragraphs 1 and 2, Article 25, Article 32, paragraphs 1 and 2, and Articles 44 and 46 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Reasoning

Basis for processing personal data

In the case being evaluated now, Helmet libraries have used various tracking technologies on the Helmet.fi website, such as the Google Analytics analytics tool and the Google Tag Manager service.
The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner pays particular attention to the basis of processing, that Helmet libraries have installed tracking technologies on the site visitor's terminal device as soon as they reach the website, before, for example, the window containing choices used to obtain cookie consent (the so-called cookie banner) has even been shown to the user. Helmet libraries have used this personal data, for example, for the purpose of developing the service, and this data has also ended up for business use by providers of tracking technology services.
The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner states that § 205 of the Act on Electronic Communication Services, the application of which is supervised by the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom, will apply with regard to the storage and use of tracking technologies. In order for the further processing following the acquisition of consent and the storage of tracking technologies to be in accordance with data protection regulations, the conditions set in Section 205 of the Act on Electronic Communication Services for the setting of cookies and other tracking technologies must first be met. Regarding these initial conditions, the assessment of the legality of the use of website tracking technologies is the responsibility of Traficom, as stated above. Since the cookie banner of the Helmet.fi website, through which consent to cookies was supposed to be obtained, has not functioned properly, it can nevertheless be considered obvious that valid consent has not been obtained, and further processing has not been in accordance with data protection regulations.
Since Helmet libraries have utilized personal data collected through website tracking technologies without a legal basis for processing, the procedure has violated Articles 5(1)(a) and 6(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, which require that for the processing of personal data, including personal data collected through website tracking technologies for further processing, there is a legal and actually applicable basis for processing. The procedure has also been in violation of Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation, and in the processing of personal data it has not been ensured that data protection is taken into account in the operations of the data controllers so that the requirements of built-in data protection are met. Article 25(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation (built-in data protection) requires the data controller to effectively implement the data protection principles of Article 5 of the General Data Protection Regulation, such as the legality principle of Article 5(1)(a).

Disclosure of information about material searches to third parties

Helmet libraries have told the data protection commissioner in their report to the office that the Google Analytics analytics service has only been used on the content pages, not in the material search or on the customer's My Information pages.
After investigating the matter, the Deputy Data Protection Commissioner states the following: You can search for works on the Helmet.fi website using the material search function. In this case, for example, the name of the searched book appears in the URL of the search results page, i.e. in the web address line (e.g. https://haku.helmet.fi/iii/encore/record/C__Rb2347993__Smuumipappa%20ja%20meri__Orightresult__U__X7?lang=fin&suite=cobalt).
If the user has then moved from a link on the search results page to, for example, the main page of the Helmet.fi website, which uses the Google Analytics service, information about the searched work may have ended up on Google via the Referer http header field. It should be noted that the Helmet libraries have not, for example, defined a so-called Referrer-Policy, with which it would have been possible for outsiders to interfere with the end of material search information.
Search data for library works can reveal a considerable amount of information about a person's private life, and they can be used, for example, to create a personal profile of the data subject. Carelessness in the processing of personal data has, in the case under review, led to the transmission of this data, at least for Google's use.
Article 32 of the General Data Protection Regulation (security of processing) requires the controller to take appropriate technical and organizational measures, among other things, to ensure that access to personal data by outsiders is prevented. Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation (built-in and default data protection) requires that data protection is built into the operations of the controller and is taken into account by default in all processing of personal data. When personal data can end up in a systematic way to third parties without purpose, there are obvious shortcomings in the implementation of built-in and default data protection. Since material search information may have been leaked to third parties in the operation of Helmet libraries, the procedure of the data controllers in these respects has not met the requirements of Article 32, Paragraphs 1 and 2 or Article 25 of the General Data Protection Regulation.

Informing registered users

Data protection information regarding the tracking technologies used by Helmet libraries has been available to registered users on the Helmet.fi website under the "About the site" link. Behind the "About the site" link, there is also a link to the customer register of Helmet libraries, where it is stated regarding data transfers that "Some of the service providers also operate outside the EU or EEA".
Data protection information must be easily found by the data subject. The name of the "About the site" link does not clearly indicate that the information required by law on the processing of personal data can be found behind it. The data protection information cannot therefore be considered to be easily found by the data subject, and the requirement of transparency in the processing of personal data is not met in this respect.
In the case of tracking technologies, the information given to data subjects does not include information about which service providers (such as Google) are involved in the processing of personal data using tracking technologies, and how long personal data is stored. Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation requires that the data subject be given information about, for example, the recipients or groups of recipients of personal data (Article 13(1)(e)) and the retention period (Article 13(2)(a)). For example, in its decision C‑673/17, the EU Court has stated that the website user must be given information about the operating time of cookies and whether third parties have the opportunity to use these cookies.
According to Article 13 of the General Data Protection Regulation, data subjects must also be informed about transfers of personal data to third countries and the basis for the transfer (Article 13(1)(f)). The information given in the case being evaluated now, according to which "Some of the service providers also operate outside the EU or EEA" is not sufficient to form an understanding of, for example, which service providers are mentioned, and on the basis of which transfer basis personal data has been deemed possible to transfer outside the EU and EEA area. In addition, the information is placed behind the customer register link, and thus cannot be easily found by the registrants.
Informing the registered about the processing of personal data related to the use of tracking technologies, including data transfers, is incomplete as stated above, and based on the information provided, the data subject cannot get a clear understanding of how and under which conditions his personal data is actually processed in this context.

Data transfers to third countries related to the use of tracking technologies

The Helmet.fi website has used tracking technologies, through which the personal data of users of the library website has also been transmitted to third countries. For example, the US company Google's services such as Google Analytics and Google Tag Manager have been used.

Access to personal data by US authorities

In 2013, it was revealed that some of the world's largest technology companies, such as Microsoft, Facebook (Meta), Google, Skype and Apple, were involved in the surveillance programs of the US National Security Agency, NSA.
PRISM, included in these programs, has allowed the NSA direct access to the central servers of technology companies, and it is thus possible for the US authorities to see and collect, for example, all the data traffic of ordinary citizens going to Google in real time without Google's involvement.
In practice, e-mail messages, photos, online chats and call data have been the subject of collection. The data collection is aimed especially at foreigners, i.e. in practice, for example, people using the services of Google and other technology giants in the Nordic countries.
US companies must also hand over personal data to the authority at the legally binding request of the authority in accordance with US national regulations. Consequently, the authorities' access to personal data also extends to actors who are not involved in the NSA's surveillance programs.
On 27 November 2013, the European Commission has published a report according to which the United States has confirmed the existence of the PRISM program and its justification under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act 1978 (FISA).

Google and data transfers to the United States

In the matter now being evaluated, Google's services, such as the Google Analytics analytics tool, have been used on the Helmet.fi website of the Helsinki metropolitan area libraries. The Google Analytics service stores and reads data collected through cookies placed on the user's browser, and the collected data is transmitted to Google servers located in the United States (statement provided by Google to the French Data Protection Authority (CNIL) in case dnro MDM221005). The personal data collected on the Helmet.fi website has therefore been transferred to the United States.
The General Data Protection Regulation requires that the transfer of personal data from the Union to registrars, personal data processors or other recipients in third countries does not jeopardize the level of protection of personal data based on the General Data Protection Regulation, and in order to secure an adequate level of data protection, the so-called Privacy Shield has previously been used in data transfers between the EU and the United States arrangement. However, the European Court of Justice has stated in its decision in case C-311/18 (the so-called Schrems II decision) that Decision 2016/1250 on the adequacy of the level of data protection provided by the Privacy Shield arrangement between the EU and the United States is invalid. In its decision, the Court of Justice of the European Union considers that the restrictions on personal data protection resulting from the internal legislation of the United States, which concerns the access of the United States authorities to personal data transferred from the Union to the United States and the use of this data, have not been delimited in a way that would meet the requirements of Union law. Registrants are also not given enforceable rights that they could invoke against US authorities in the courts. The Court of Justice of the European Union has further stated that the controller must suspend transfers of personal data to a third country if it cannot take sufficient additional measures to ensure the protection of personal data.
In the case being evaluated now, according to the report, Helmet libraries have not properly taken into account in their operations what was stated in the EU Court's decision C-311/18, but have used tracking technology on their website that includes data transfers to the United States without additional protective measures.
With regard to additional protective measures, such as the encryption of personal data, the Deputy Data Protection Commissioner points out in this context that under FISA regulations, for example, Google is also obliged to provide the US authorities with an encryption key. In other words, if the supplementary protection measure implemented by the data controller is one that enables, for example, Google to access plain language data, the supplementary protection measure does not meet the requirements set by the EU Court in its decision C-311/18. In its operations, the controller must also ensure that the US authority does not have access to personal data, for example, based on US national legislation, such as the CLOUD Act regulation.
Since the Helmet libraries have stated in their report to the data protection commissioner's office that Matomo's service has also been used and that Google Analytics will be replaced by the Matomo analytics service, the deputy data protection commissioner also points out that the data controllers must also ensure that the use of the service does not violate data protection regulations data transfers and that the processing of personal data is otherwise in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation when using the service. The service in question is not automatically such that its use cannot involve such data transfers.
With the procedure described above, Helmet libraries have violated Article 44 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which requires data transfers to be carried out in compliance with the requirements of Chapter V of the General Data Protection Regulation, and Article 46 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which requires appropriate protective measures in the absence of a decision in accordance with Article 45 of the General Data Protection Regulation , and there has not been a transfer basis required by law for the transfer of registered personal data to the United States.
According to the report received, Helmet libraries have taken measures to remove tracking technologies from the Helmet.fi website, and the data protection commissioner's office has directed Helmet libraries to ensure that no services remain available that involve transfers of personal data to the United States that violate data protection regulations.

About the tracking technologies used on official websites in general

With regard to the tracking technology used by the authorities on their websites, the deputy data protection commissioner states the following on a more general level of the matter now being evaluated:
The Deputy Data Protection Commissioner emphasizes that the authority's online services should in principle be able to be used without the data subject potentially exposing himself to third parties' own purposes, data collection by utilizing tracking technology, and without information about website visits ending up, for example, for commercial use and profiling purposes by external parties. It should be noted that, for example, Google explicitly states in its terms of use of the Google Analytics service that it can use the information obtained through the tracking technology for its own purposes. (According to the terms of use of the Google Analytics service, Google and its wholly owned subsidiaries may retain and use, subject to the terms of its privacy policy information collected in Your use of the Service) , see Google Analytics Terms of Service, section 6.)
The authority should also not use the personal data of visitors to its website as a means of payment, and the authority should therefore make an appropriate assessment of whether it is, for example, a free service, the use of which may in fact be paid for by the personal data of the registrants.
The authority must also take into account with regard to further processing that when the basis for the processing of personal data is the data subject's consent, the consent must be explicit, informed and must cover all processing purposes, including the possible disclosure of personal data. A separate, separate consent must also be obtained for all different processing purposes, so that, for example, the requirement of voluntary consent is actually fulfilled, and consents obtained for different purposes cannot be bundled under one consent. In accordance with Article 6(1) of the General Data Protection Regulation, legitimate interest is not a processing basis applicable to the authority's activities.
The authority must carefully consider what kind of tracking technology is actually necessary to have on its website, and whether the authority's online service could, for example, be offered completely without tracking technologies other than those necessary for the operation of the website. In this assessment, it is justified to note that the authority's website can also be visited by persons in a weaker position, including elderly persons and children, whose digital skills may be deficient or who may find it challenging to understand what the processing of personal data through tracking technologies is about, and what use the data may be put to end up.
It should be noted that when using tracking technologies, it is also possible to track the activity of a website visitor across different sites, which enables, for example, tracking the Internet user's browsing path and online activity, as well as creating a detailed profile of the person in question. Because tracking technologies can lead to significant collection of personal data by third parties, the authority should exercise particular care when making decisions about what kind of tracking technology to put on its website. The use of tracking technology on websites requires both technical expertise and an understanding of data protection jurisprudence, including the concept of personal data.
Applicable legal provisions
Those mentioned in the justifications.
Appeal
According to Section 25 of the Data Protection Act (1050/2018), this decision can be appealed by appealing to the Administrative Court in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Trial in Administrative Matters (808/2019). The appeal is made to the administrative court.
Service
The decision is notified in accordance with § 60 of the Administrative Act (434/2003) by mail against receipt.
More information about this decision will be provided by the rapporteur
Chief Inspector Niina Miettinen, tel. 029 566 6774.
Deputy Data Protection Commissioner Heljä-Tuulia Pihamaa

The decision is not yet legally binding.




