



Census 2022-the people are counted

Photo by mauro mora from Unsplash





On May 15th it's that time again: the people will be counted - important information on data protection
On May 15th it's that time again: the people will be counted - important information on data protection

05/11/2022


The census determines how many people live in Germany, how they live and work. Many decisions at federal, state and local level are based on these statistical surveys.
As with the 2011 census, the 2022 census will not be carried out as a total census, but as a register-based survey. This means that large amounts of existing data stocks of the state administration (register) are used as basic information and not the entire household survey, but only a nationwide sample of approx. 10-12% of the population is directly interviewed. In Hamburg as a city state, around 60,000 and in Schleswig-Holstein around 220,000 households are surveyed directly. In addition, all owners and other persons entitled to dispose of and use the property are surveyed in the survey of buildings and apartments, which is generally carried out online or in writing.
Many citizens of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein will therefore receive an invitation to participate in the 2022 census from the Statistical Office for Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein (Statistics Office North) from May 8th and may ask themselves:

What is a census?
Why did I receive this letter but my friends didn't?
What personal data is involved and what happens to it?
Do I have to provide information? What about privacy?

The Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information would therefore like to inform those affected about this year's census. We have provided answers to the above and other questions as well as additional information on the 2022 census here.
Thomas Fuchs, the Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, says about the 2022 census: “This year’s census is already the second of its kind, but it is by no means an everyday occurrence for those surveyed. As part of the census, citizens have to give the state deep insights into their private lives and reveal a lot of personal information. For this reason, data protection is of particular importance here. The Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information was well involved in the preparation of the census and will closely monitor the data protection-compliant implementation both during and after the implementation. With the FAQ published today, the HmbBfDI responds to frequent questions from citizens and would like to contribute to reducing existing uncertainties."


press contact
rot13("Znegva Fpurzz", "sfoegtbndzklmjuv");mmehcS nitraM

Phone:
+49 40 428 54-4044
Email: rot13("cerffr@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "denuzfilhvxbpgry");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@esserp







