1/10

 Procedure No.: PS/00155/2021

RESOLUTION R/00389/2021 TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

In sanctioning procedure PS/00155/2021, instructed by the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., given the complaint filed
by A.A.A., and based on the following,

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 16, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against VODAFONE
SPAIN, S.A.U. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that is transcribed:

<<

Procedure No.: PS/00155/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: Dated September 24, 2020, entered this Agency
Spanish Data Protection, a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which it makes a claim against VODAFONE ESPAÑA,
S.A.U. with NIF A80907397 (hereinafter, the claimed).

SECOND: In view of the foregoing, there are indications of a possible
breach of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/10

of Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), which has motivated the opening of the
file E/08771/2020.

In accordance with the provisions of article 65 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(LOPDGDD hereinafter), the claim was transferred to the person in charge or to the Delegate
of Data Protection that in his case would have designated, requiring him to send
to this Agency the requested information and documentation. This requirement
of information was not answered in time. The claim was admitted for processing
date January 5, 2021.

THIRD: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of the RGPD, and in accordance with the provisions of the Title
VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the aforementioned LOPDGDD.

Within the framework of investigation actions E/00035/2021, the defendant was referred
a request for information, related to the claim outlined in the section
first, so that within a period of ten working days, it would present to this Agency the
information and documentation indicated therein. The request was registered.
of departure on February 4, 2021 with number O00007128s2100006950.

FOURTH: The request for information, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations
established in Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), was collected by the
responsible on February 8, 2021, as stated in the Notific@ certificate
what works in the file.

FIFTH: Regarding the required information, the person in charge has not sent
any response to this Spanish Data Protection Agency.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/10

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47, 48.1, 64.2 and 68.1 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and solve this procedure.

II

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, it is considered that the respondent has not sought the Spanish Agency of
Data Protection the information you requested.

With the aforementioned conduct of the defendant, the power of investigation that article
58.1 of the RGPD confers to the control authorities, in this case, the AEPD, it has been
seen hampered.

Therefore, the events described in the "Events" section are deemed to constitute
an infraction, attributable to the claimed party, for violation of article 58.1 of the RGPD,
which provides that each control authority will have, among its powers of
research:

“a) order the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment and, where appropriate, the
representative of the person in charge or the person in charge, who facilitate any
information required for the performance of its functions; b) carry out
investigations in the form of data protection audits; c) carry out
a review of the certifications issued under article 42, paragraph
7; d) notify the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment of the alleged
violations of this Regulation; e) obtain from the controller and the
in charge of the treatment access to all personal data and to all the
information necessary for the exercise of its functions; f) gain access to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/10

all premises of the controller and processor, including
any equipment and means of data processing, in accordance with the
Procedural law of the Union or of the Member States.”

III

In accordance with the evidence available at the present time of
agreement to initiate the sanctioning procedure, and without prejudice to what results from the
investigation, it is considered that the exposed facts could constitute a
infraction, attributable to the defendant.

This infringement is typified in article 83.5.e) of the RGPD, which considers as such: "no
facilitate access in breach of article 58, section 1”.

In the same article it is established that this infraction can be sanctioned with a fine.
twenty million euros (€20,000,000) maximum or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to four percent (4%) as a maximum of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for the
of greater amount.

For the purposes of the limitation period for infringements, the infringement charged
prescribes after three years, in accordance with article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which qualifies as
very serious the following behavior:

“ñ) Not facilitating the access of the personnel of the data protection authority
competent to personal data, information, premises, equipment and means of
treatment that are required by the data protection authority to
the exercise of its investigative powers.

o) The resistance or obstruction of the exercise of the inspection function by the
competent data protection authority.”

IV

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/10

According to the exposed facts, without prejudice to what results from the investigation of the
procedure, it is considered that it corresponds to charge the defendant for the violation
of article 58.1 of the RGPD typified in article 83.5 e) of the RGPD. The penalty that
should be imposed is an administrative fine.

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective, proportionate
and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD. In
Consequently, the sanction to be imposed must be graduated according to the criteria
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD.

v

Finally, it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed according to the criteria that
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, with respect to section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD.

In the initial assessment it is appreciated that no mitigating factor is applicable and
They have considered, as aggravating, the following facts:

- Art. 83.2 b) RGPD: the intention or negligence in the infringement. It is about
of a company that is not newly created and should have
procedures established for the fulfillment of the obligations that
contemplates the data protection regulations, among them, to respond to
the requirements of the supervisory authority.

- Art. 83.2 k) RGPD: any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the
circumstances of the case, such as the financial benefits obtained or the
Losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through the infringement. The
claim refers to the particular case of a person, but the
data processing to which it refers, may potentially affect a
very high number of clients of the responsible entity or users of the
service provided by the responsible entity.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/10

Therefore, based on the foregoing,

By the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency,

HE REMEMBERS:

FIRST: INITIATE PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against VODAFONE SPAIN,
S.A.U., with NIF A80907397, for the infringement of article 58.1 of the RGPD, typified in
the art. 83. 5 e) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and, as secretary, to S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, where appropriate, in accordance with the
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
information requirements issued by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data within the framework of the files with reference code E/08771/2020 and
E/00035/2021; and the accreditation of having practiced its notification.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be 5,000.00 euros, without prejudice to what
result of the instruction.

FIFTH: NOTIFY this agreement to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U., with NIF
A80907397, granting him a hearing period of ten business days to formulate
the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In his writing of
allegations you must provide your NIF and the procedure number that appears in the
header of this document.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/10

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of the LPACAP.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
this initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 4,000.00 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 4,000.00 euros and its payment will imply the termination
of the procedure.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 3,000.00 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (4,000.00 euros or 3,000.00 euros), you must make it effective
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/10

by depositing it in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 open to
name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the bank
CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause of
reduction of the amount to which it is accepted.

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity
entered.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the LPACAP,
There is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

972-070421

>>

 : On May 17, 2021, the respondent has proceeded to pay the
SECOND
 
sanction in the amount of 3000 euros making use of the two reductions provided
in the Startup Agreement transcribed above, which implies the recognition of the
responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/10

Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:
"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations.

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00155/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to VODAFONE ESPAÑA, S.A.U.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/10

day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

936-031219

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

