

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of the security of personal data in the National Health Information System (Institute of Health Information and Statistics)



On the basis of the Office's control plan, the Office carried out an inspection of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, the subject of which was compliance with the obligations stipulated by Act No. 101/2000 Coll. when processing personal data within the National Health Information System, i.e. within the unified nationwide public administration information system focused on the collection and processing of personal data on the health status of data subjects.

The Institute of Health Information and Statistics processes personal data on the basis of Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and conditions for their provision (Health Services Act). The Office checked the fulfillment of the duties of the inspected person in the management of individual health registers. The Office focused primarily on the fulfillment of the following obligations when processing personal data: § 5 paragraph 1 (in particular, the scope of the processed data, the period of their retention, ensuring their accuracy, processing only in accordance with the purpose for which they were collected), § 6 (agreement on processing), § 13 (security of personal data, especially adopted and documented technical and organizational measures, risk analysis and control mechanisms, including logging, penetration tests).

In connection with the subject processing of personal data, the Office did not detect a violation of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.

The inspection was conducted by inspector PaeDr. Jana Rybínová.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 1st semester > Inspection of the security of personal data in the National Health Information System (Institute of Health Information and statistics) View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



