1/17

 File No.: PS/00518/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On November 11, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency
of Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS R.R.R. (hereinafter, the claimed party), through the Agreement that
is transcribed:

<<

File No.: PS/00518/2021

AGREEMENT TO START A SANCTION PROCEDURE

Of the actions carried out by the Spanish Data Protection Agency and in
based on the following

FACTS

FIRST: D.A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 10/10/2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against DATA 1000 FINCAS, S.L., (hereinafter, DATA 1000 FINCAS), and the
The reasons on which the claim is based are, in short: that the administrator in
functions of the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R., located at ***ADDRESS.1
(hereinafter COMMUNITY OF OWNERS), provided the Director of the company
security "CMM Security", by email dated 09/30/2020, copy of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/17

Minutes of the Ordinary General Meeting held by the aforementioned Community on
03/05/2020; the aforementioned document contains the names and addresses of neighbors,
list of defaulters and the accounts with all the income and expenses of the Community.
It adds that there is no contract between the Administrator and the security company, nor
authorization of neighbors and defaulters to provide their data and statement of accounts to the
security company.

The following documentation is attached to this claim:

. Copy of the Act object of the claim. It is found that it includes, among
other information, detail regarding the owners with pending receipts, with
indication of the "estate", name and surname of the owner, amount of the debt and shares
undertaken to collect the amounts owed, if any; information
on the rental of a parking space that is being carried out by an owner, with
indication of your name and surnames; and renewal of charges, indicating the charge, the
designated person and the property owned by him; In addition to the statement of accounts
community. This document includes as an Annex the Notice of the Meeting.

. Copy of the email, dated 09/30/2020, sent by the claimed entity
to the security company CMM Guard, S.L.

This email informs the aforementioned company of the meeting call
carried out by a group of neighbors, scheduled for that same date, and they are provided with
instructions on the measures to be carried out in accordance with the rules of
established by the Community of Owners mentioned (closure of some
facilities, notice to the police, where appropriate, conservation of the images of
video surveillance, disconnection of lighting in certain areas of the
urbanization, etc).

In this same email it is expressly stated: “We enclose a copy of the minutes of the
General Meeting held on March 5 of this year, which includes the
appointments of the Governing Board.

SECOND: On 11/13/2020, the claim was transferred to DATA 1000
PROPERTIES, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Organic Law
3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of the
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), in order to proceed to its analysis,
notify the claimant of the decision adopted and provide this Agency with information
about.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/17

On 12/14/2020, the aforementioned entity responded to the transfer stating the following:

. That DATA 1000 FINCAS acts as administrator of the COMMUNITY OF
PROPRIETORS, not having received any administrative file, neither penal, nor
disciplinary as a member of the Professional Association of Property Administrators of
Madrid;

. That since October 2016 the company CMM Guard S.L. provides security service
and security in the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS during the seven days of the
week, 24 hours a day;

. That the claim must be understood within the context of confrontation between
owners that the aforementioned Community has lived in the previous months and of which
DATA 1000 FINCAS has not been able to stay on the sidelines;

. That the Minutes of the General Meeting to which reference is made do not include data on
personal character of any owner such as their telephone numbers or bank accounts, nor
any other data not available to the contracted security company due to
its functions;

. That the minutes were not sent to people outside the COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS, but to the Manager of the security company contracted by the
itself, which had requested instructions before the confusion created by several
owners about the lack of legitimacy of the Governing Board and the Administrator
to carry out their functions. This is fulfilled, in the opinion of DATA 1000 FINCAS,
the principle of necessity established by article 5 of the RGPD and the delivery of this
document is justified as documentary evidence of the appointment of the members
of the Governing Board, appointments that were being disputed by a group
of co-owners;

. With the indicated reason, points out DATA 1000 FINCAS, the President of the
COMMUNITY OF PROPRIETORS provided him with instructions to send the minutes in
issue to the aforementioned security company, as documentary evidence of the
appointment of the members of the Governing Board;

. That the claimant cannot act on behalf of a third party without having proven the
representation, since in the aforementioned act the name or surnames do not even appear.

Provide a copy of the "Security Service Lease Agreement", of
11/01/2016, which binds the OWNERS COMMUNITY and the CMM entity
Guard, S.L., and a copy of the email that the President of said Community

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/17

forwarded the claim on 09/19/2020. This email indicates to the claimed
to send a note to the security company “in which instructions are given
how to proceed in the event that the people who want to carry out the
Meeting” and a statement “indicating the reasons why the Meeting of the 30th
convened by the promoters is not well convened”. Nothing is indicated in this mail
about sending the Minutes to the security company.

THIRD: On 02/19/2021, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the entity claimed.

FOURTH: On 04/12/2021, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate sanctioning proceedings against the entity DATA 1000 FINCAS.

During the processing of this procedure, DATA 1000 FINCAS alleged that it carried out the
sending of the record that motivates the claim by mandate of the people who to date
09/30/2020 held the position of President and Vice President COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS, and provided a "Certification" signed digitally by the President and
with the signature of the Vice President authenticated by a notary, in which they declare that they gave
instructions to the Administrator of the same to send to the Managing Director
of the company CMM Guard, S.L. the minutes of the General Meeting of 03/05/2020, “as
documentary evidence of the people who, at that time, held the positions of
the Governing Board of the Community, as it effectively did on the 30th of
September 2020 in compliance with these instructions.” In the same document,
indicates that said shipment was made on 09/30/2020 “in compliance with those
instructions"; that occurred at the request of the indicated company, which provides the service
of vigilance; and on the occasion of the Meeting convened by a group of owners to
that same day 09/30/2020.

Considering these facts, by resolution of 10/27/2021, the file was filed
of the sanctioning procedure followed against the entity DATA 1000 FINCAS.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/17

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to
resolve this procedure.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the RGPD, in
this organic law, by the regulatory provisions issued in its
development and, in so far as they are not contradicted, on a subsidiary basis, by the rules
general administrative procedures.

II

Article 5 of the RGPD refers to the principle of data minimization in letter c) of
its section 1 in the following terms:

“Article 5 Principles relating to the treatment

1.The personal data will be:

c) adequate, pertinent and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are
processed (“data minimization”)”.

In this case, the facts denounced are specified in the delivery to a third party, the
security company contracted by the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, of copy
of the Minutes of the General Meeting held on 03/05/2020, which contains data on
personal character of the residents of the Community that are listed in the
Background First, without there being any legal basis to justify this
communication of personal data.

The Community has entered into a contract with the company receiving the
information, CMM Guard S.L., by virtue of which this company provides the Community
surveillance and security services. This contractual relationship justifies access by
part of the aforementioned company to personal data of the people who make up the
Community, whenever they are necessary for the fulfillment of the obligations
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/17

that entails the provision of agreed services. Thus, CMM Guard S.L. could have
legitimacy to know the identification data and some of the agreements made
in the General Meeting, such as the appointment of the Governing Board; but not
justifies access to information about neighbors who owe amounts to the
Community, nor the details of the debt, nor the personal issues that
can be addressed at a General Meeting such as the one held on 03/05/2020.

With the delivery of the Act in question to the security company, it was intended to give
meet the members of the Governing Board appointed by the respective Board
General Ordinary, since said information may be necessary for the
performance of the aforementioned service contract. Therefore, it should have been limited to facilitating
that information or to send the Minutes document after having been duly
anonymized.

Thus, the delivery of the Minutes to the security company, with all the information
contained in that document, can be understood, without prejudice to what results from the
instruction, such as the processing of inappropriate personal data, irrelevant and
not necessary for the specific purpose of the treatment, contrary to the principles of
data protection, specifically, the principle of "data minimization", regulated
in article 5.1.c) of the RGPD.

The remission of the Minutes was made by DATA 1000 FINCAS, in its capacity as
Administrator of the Community of Owners and, therefore, in charge of the
treatment, in accordance with the instructions received from the controller, which is not
other than the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, and on behalf of the latter (it appears in the
proceedings a "Certification" signed by the President and Vice President of the
Community of Owners on the date of 09/30/2020, in which these people
state that they gave instructions to DATA 1000 FINCAS to send to the
company CMM Guard, S.L. the minutes of the General Meeting of 03/05/2020).

The essence of the “processor” function is that the personal data
are processed in the name and on behalf of the data controller. In practice,
it is the person in charge who determines the purpose and the means, at least the essential ones,
while the person in charge of the treatment has a function of providing services to the
responsible for the treatment. In other words, “acting in the name and on behalf of
of the data controller” means that the data controller is at the
servicing the interest of the controller in carrying out a task
specific and, therefore, follows the instructions established by the person in charge of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/17

processing, at least as regards the purpose and essential means of processing.
ordered treatment.

The person in charge of the treatment is the one who has the obligation to guarantee the application
of the data protection regulations and the protection of the rights of the
interested, as well as being able to demonstrate it (articles 5.2, 24, 28 and 32 of the RGPD).
The control of compliance with the law extends throughout the treatment,
From the beginning to the end. The data controller must act, in
in any case, in a diligent, conscious, committed and active manner.

This mandate of the legislator is independent of whether the treatment is carried out
directly the person in charge of the treatment or that it is carried out using a
treatment manager.

In addition, the treatment carried out materially by a treatment manager for
account of the person in charge of the treatment belongs to the sphere of action of this
last, in the same way as if he did it directly himself. The person in charge of
treatment, in the case examined, is an extension of the person responsible for the
treatment.

The data controller has the obligation to integrate and deploy the protection
of data within everything that makes up your organization, in all its areas. I know
must bear in mind that, ultimately, the determining purpose is to
guarantee the protection of the interested party.

In accordance with the foregoing, in the present case, proving that there was a
legal basis to provide the security company with the Minutes of the General Meeting
Ordinary with all the personal information outlined in said document corresponds
to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS, as the responsible entity.

Consequently, in accordance with the exposed evidence, available in the
moment in which the opening of the procedure takes place, and without prejudice to what
result of the investigation, the aforementioned facts could suppose a violation by the
of the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS of the provisions of article 5.1.c) of the
RGPD, which, if confirmed, would lead to the application of the corrective powers that
Article 58 of the aforementioned Regulation grants the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/17

Data.

III

In the event that there is an infringement of the provisions of the RGPD, between the
corrective powers available to the Spanish Data Protection Agency,
as a control authority, article 58.2 of said Regulation contemplates the
following:

“2 Each control authority will have all the following corrective powers indicated below:
continuation:
(…)
b) send a warning to any person responsible or in charge of the treatment when the
treatment operations have violated the provisions of this Regulation;
(...)

d) order the person responsible or in charge of the treatment that the treatment operations be
comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate, of a given
manner and within a specified time;

(…)

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or instead of the
measures mentioned in this section, according to the circumstances of each case
particular;".

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in letter d)
above is compatible with the sanction consisting of an administrative fine.

IV

Failure to comply with the provisions of article 5 of the RGPD implies the commission of
an infringement typified in section 5.a) of article 83 of the RGPD, which under the
heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides
the next:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/17

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or, in the case of a
company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the total annual turnover
of the previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the consent to
tenor of articles 5, 6, 7 and 9”.

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 establishes that "They constitute
infractions the acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the
Article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that are contrary to the
present organic law”.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 of the LOPDGDD, “Infringements
considered very serious", it indicates:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees established in the
Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.

In order to establish the administrative fine to be imposed, the following conditions must be observed:
provisions contained in articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD, which indicate:

"1. Each control authority will guarantee that the imposition of administrative fines with
in accordance with this article for the infringements of this Regulation indicated in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 are in each individual case effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

2. Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each case
individually, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures referred to in article 58,
section 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose an administrative fine and its amount

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/17

In each individual case, due account shall be taken of:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the nature,
scope or purpose of the treatment operation in question as well as the number of
affected parties and the level of damages they have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the person responsible or in charge of the treatment to alleviate the
damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the data controller or processor, taking into account
of the technical or organizational measures that they have applied by virtue of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in particular if the
The person responsible or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, to what extent;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the same
matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under Article 40 or certification mechanisms
approved under article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or indirectly, through
the infraction”.

In relation to letter k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, in its article 76,
“Sanctions and corrective measures”, establishes that:

"1. The sanctions provided for in sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be applied taking into account the graduation criteria established in the
section 2 of the aforementioned article.

2. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, also
may be taken into account:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/17

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of data processing
personal.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission of the crime.
infringement.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the infraction,
that cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection officer.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which there are
controversies between them and any interested party”.

In accordance with the precepts transcribed, in order to set the amount of the sanction of
fine to be imposed in the present case for the infraction typified in article 83.5.a)
of the RGPD for which the OWNERS COMMUNITY is responsible,
It considers that the following factors concur as aggravating factors:

. The damage occurred since they were provided to a third party, not only the data of
personal character of the neighbors, but also the delinquency condition of some
from them.

. There is no evidence that the entity had acted maliciously, although the
performance reveals gross negligence.

. The categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

It is also considered that there are extenuating circumstances
following:

. The merely local scope of the treatment carried out by the claimed entity.

. The claimed entity is a small business.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/17

. The scant link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment
of personal data.

. The absence of benefits obtained as a result of the commission of the
infringement.

Considering the exposed factors, the initial valuation that reaches the fine for the
imputed infraction is 2,000 euros (two thousand euros).

v

If the infraction is confirmed, it could be agreed to impose on the person responsible the adoption of
appropriate measures to adjust their actions to the regulations mentioned in this
act, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to the
which each control authority may “order the person in charge or in charge of the
treatment that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the
this Regulation, where appropriate, in a certain way and within a
specified period…”.

In such a case, in the resolution adopted, this Agency may require the
responsible so that within the period determined, adapt the data processing
that it carries out to the data protection regulations in accordance with what is indicated
in the preceding Foundations of Law.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
being able to motivate such conduct the opening of a subsequent administrative procedure
sanctioning

Therefore, in accordance with the foregoing, by the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection,

HE REMEMBERS:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/17

FIRST: START A PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE against the COMMUNITY entity
OF PROPIETARIOS R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1, for the alleged violation of 5.1.c) of
RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.

SECOND: APPOINT R.R.R. as instructor. and, as secretary, to S.S.S.,
indicating that any of them may be challenged, as the case may be, in accordance with
established in articles 23 and 24 of Law 40/2015, of October 1, on the Regime
Legal Department of the Public Sector (LRJSP).

THIRD: INCORPORATE to the disciplinary file, for evidentiary purposes, the
claim filed by the claimant and its documentation, as well as the
documents obtained and generated by the Subdirectorate General for Inspection of
Data. It also incorporates the documentation provided by the interested party during
the processing of the sanctioning procedure indicated with the number PS/00092/2021.

FOURTH: THAT for the purposes provided in art. 64.2 b) of Law 39/2015, of 1
October, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the
sanction that could correspond would be 2,000 euros (two thousand euros), without prejudice
of what results from the instruction.

Likewise, the imputed infraction, if confirmed, may lead to the imposition of
measures in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD.

SIXTH: NOTIFY this agreement to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1, granting a hearing period of ten business days to
to formulate the allegations and present the evidence it deems appropriate. In
your brief of allegations must provide your NIF and the number of the procedure that
appears at the top of this document

If within the stipulated period it does not make allegations to this initial agreement, the same
may be considered a resolution proposal, as established in article
64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/17

In accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP, you may recognize your
responsibility within the term granted for the formulation of allegations to the
this initiation agreement; which will entail a reduction of 20% of the
sanction to be imposed in this proceeding. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 1,600 euros, resolving the
procedure with the imposition of this sanction.

Similarly, you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this reduction,
the sanction would be established at 1,600 euros and its payment will imply the termination of the
process.

The reduction for the voluntary payment of the penalty is cumulative with the corresponding
apply for the acknowledgment of responsibility, provided that this acknowledgment
of the responsibility is revealed within the period granted to formulate
arguments at the opening of the procedure. The voluntary payment of the referred amount
in the previous paragraph may be done at any time prior to the resolution. In
In this case, if it were appropriate to apply both reductions, the amount of the penalty would be
set at 1,200 euros.

In any case, the effectiveness of any of the two reductions mentioned will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed to the voluntary payment of any of the amounts
indicated above (1,600 or 1,200 euros), you must make it effective through your
Deposit in account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 opened in the name of the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.,
indicating in the concept the reference number of the procedure that appears in the
heading of this document and the reason for the reduction of the amount to which
welcomes

Likewise, you must send proof of payment to the General Subdirectorate of
Inspection to proceed with the procedure in accordance with the quantity

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/17

entered.

The procedure will have a maximum duration of nine months from the
date of the start-up agreement or, where appropriate, of the draft start-up agreement.
Once this period has elapsed, it will expire and, consequently, the file of
performances; in accordance with the provisions of article 64 of the LOPDGDD.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of article 112.1 of the
LPACAP, there is no administrative appeal against this act.

Sea Spain Marti

Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

>>

935-160721

SECOND: On January 12, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 1200 euros making use of the two reductions
provided for in the Start Agreement transcribed above, which implies the
acknowledgment of responsibility.

THIRD: The payment made, within the period granted to formulate allegations to
the opening of the procedure, entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
administrative action against the sanction and acknowledgment of responsibility in relation to
the facts referred to in the Initiation Agreement.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in art. 47 of the Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection
is competent to sanction the infractions that are committed against said
Regulation; infractions of article 48 of Law 9/2014, of May 9, General
Telecommunications (hereinafter LGT), in accordance with the provisions of the
article 84.3 of the LGT, and the infractions typified in articles 38.3 c), d) and i) and
38.4 d), g) and h) of Law 34/2002, of July 11, on services of the society of the
information and electronic commerce (hereinafter LSSI), as provided in article
43.1 of said Law.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/17

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

In accordance with the above, the Director of the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data
RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00518/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
R.R.R.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/17

936-160721

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

