 

 
REGISTERED
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 

Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 

 
Topic
Decision to collect and intention to publish
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Dear [CONFIDENTIAL],
 
By decision of 11 May 2017 with reference [CONFIDENTIAL], the Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP)
pursuant to Article 65 of the Personal Data Protection Act (Wbp) and viewed in conjunction with Article
5:32, first paragraph, of the General Administrative Law Act (Awb), an order subject to a penalty imposed on
Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers N.V. (TGB) for violation of Article 35, second paragraph, of the Wbp. The
offense lies in the fact that TGB had not complied with [APPLICANT]'s request for him
to provide an overview of the personal data concerning him that TGB processes as well as a
description of the purpose or purposes of the processing of this data, the categories of
data to which the processing relates, the recipients or categories of recipients and the
available information on the origin of the data.
 
The beneficiary period has ended on July 11, 2017. In the case of e-mail messages of July 7, 2017 and
On 14 August 2017, TGB [APPLICANT] has two statements regarding the processing of his
provided personal data. The AP has assessed whether TGB has correctly met the imposed burden
has complied. In this decision, the AP notes that TGB will not bear the burden before the expiry of the
has completed the beneficiary period to a sufficient extent and that InsingerGilissen Bankiers N.V. (IGB) as
legal successor of TGB thus has the penalty included in the order up to a total of € 48,000
forfeit.

 

 
 
 

 

  

1



 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

1. Order subject to penalty

 
1. The order subject to periodic penalty payments as imposed on TGB by the AP by decision of 11 May 2017 reads

as follows:
 
TGB must provide [APPLICANT] with the following information:
(1) a complete overview in comprehensible form of the data subject concerning personal data;
(2) a description of the purpose or purposes of the processing;
(3) the categories of data to which the processing relates;
(4) the recipients or categories of recipients as well as
(5) the available information on the origin of the data.

  

In view of what TGB has put forward about the effort involved in drawing up an overview,
involved and the size of the number of documents containing personal data about [APPLICANT],
the AP attaches to this charge a grace period of two months ending on 11 July 2017.
 
If TGB does not comply with the order before the end of the beneficiary period, it forfeits a penalty. the AP
sets the amount of this penalty at an amount of € 12,000.00 for each week that the order is not (entirely)
carried out, up to a maximum of € 60,000.00.
 
2. Course of the procedure
 

2. By decision of 11 May 2017, the AP imposed an order subject to periodic penalty payments on TGB for

violation of Article 35, second paragraph, of the Wbp. There are no legal remedies against this decision
so that the decision has become irrevocable.
 

3. In order to implement the obligations included in the order subject to a penalty, TGB has

e-mail of 7 July 2017 to [APPLICANT] provided an overview with attachments with regard to the
processing of the personal data of [APPLICANT] by TGB. This overview with attachments has
TGB also provided to the AP by email of 7 July 2017.
 

4. By e-mail dated 13 July 2017, the AP gave [APPLICANT] the opportunity to

2017 to give a response to the overview with appendices of 7 July 2017.
 

5. By e-mail dated 20 July 2017, [APPLICANT] requested that the response period be extended by one week

extend. In anticipation of the response, [APPLICANT] has taken the position that the
overview is not complete.
 

6. By e-mail dated 21 July 2017, the AP informed [APPLICANT] that [APPLICANT] will be postponed until

and 27 July 2017 to respond to the overview with attachments dated 7 July 2017.

 

 

 

2/9



 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
7. By e-mail of 26 July 2017, [APPLICANT] provided a further response to the overview of 7 July
2017 and indicated that certain information is missing from the overview. This email was sent by the
AP forwarded to TGB on July 26, 2017.

 
8. In an e-mail of 4 August 2017 from TGB to the AP, TGB provided an explanation of the overview

and TGB addressed the statements of [APPLICANT] of 20 and 26 July 2017.
 

9. On August 10, 2017, the AP conducted an on-site investigation at TGB's office. It

The final report of this investigation was sent to IGB by letter dated 24 October 2017.
 

10. At the request of TGB, the AP issued a preliminary judgment by email of 11 August 2017 according to

following the findings of the on-site investigation. The AP has made this provisional judgment
request of TGB because the period over which a penalty could be forfeited has not yet been
had expired. The AP has indicated that, in the preliminary opinion of the AP, the overview is not
is complete.
 

11. In an e-mail dated 14 August 2017, TGB indicated that it did not agree with the provisional

judgement. TGB indicates, however, that it will clarify the overview.

 
12. By email of 14 August 2017, TGB provided [APPLICANT] with an amended overview.

In addition, TGB had its lawyer draw up a separate overview. This overview is also at
the email dated 14 August 2017 to [APPLICANT].
 
3. Considerations

 
13. On 7 July 2017, TGB provided [APPLICANT] with an overview of personal data of

[APPLICANT] processed by TGB (hereinafter: the overview). In this overview is per category
of processed personal data the following: a description of the purpose of the
processing, the (categories) of recipients and available information about the origin of the
data.

 
14. The AP assesses whether by providing this overview to the imposed order subject to a penalty of

May 11, 2017 has been met. To this end, the AP is faced with the question whether the overview of 7 July 2017
is complete.
 

15. At the request of the AP, [APPLICANT] responded by e-mails dated 20 and 26 July 2017 to

the overview of 7 July 2017. [APPLICANT] has hereby stated with reasons that the overview on
some points are incomplete.
 

16. To ensure the completeness of the overview and thus the execution of the order subject to a penalty
able to assess, the AP conducted an investigation on August 10, 2016 at the office of TGB
performed on site.

 

 

3/9



 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

 

17. After investigation, the AP determines that the overview is incomplete, because when it was drawn up, the

processing of personal data of [APPLICANT] in two documents is not involved. In this
In the frame, the AP points out the following.

 

3.1 The investigation and research report by KBL

 
18. [APPLICANT] takes the position in the email of 26 July 2017 that information relating to
to the personal data of [APPLICANT] provided by TGB to KBL European Private Bankers
(hereinafter: KBL) is missing from the overview.

 
19. During the on-site investigation, TGB stated that KBL (shareholder of TGB) was conducting an investigation

exported to [CONFIDENTIAL]. The reason for this research were events
all around [CONFIDENTIAL]. For the purpose of this investigation, as stated by TGB in its e-mail
mail of 14 August 2017 to [APPLICANT], personal data of [APPLICANT] exchanged
between TGB and KBL.
 

20. A report has been drawn up of the investigation. TGB stated during the on-site investigation that it

report contains personal data of [APPLICANT]. The relevant categories of personal data
are, according to TGB, included in the overview under 1. TGB takes the position that the report
however, does not have to be included in the overview, because this document is intended solely for
for internal use. It is a [CONFIDENTIAL]. Given the nature and content of this
[CONFIDENTIAL]. TGB therefore invokes Article 43, opening words and under e, of the Wbp. TGB
also takes the position that the categories of personal data that appear in the
report, are mentioned on the overview.

 
21. Based on the statements of TGB, the AP establishes that the report personal data of

[APPLICANT] contains.
 

22. The AP establishes on the basis of the statements of TGB that the purpose of processing

personal data of [APPLICANT] for conducting the investigation and drawing up the
report is located in [CONFIDENTIAL]. This purpose of the processing is not included in the
Overview.
 

23. The AP establishes on the basis of the statements of TGB that both TGB and KBL use the personal data

received from [APPLICANT] in the context of this investigation. In the overview of this
recipients under 1 exclusively included the Board of Directors of TGB. KBL is not as a receiver
included in the overview.

 

24. For the assessment of whether the information referred to above should have been included in the overview

are included, it is important that TGB invokes Article 43, opening words and under e, of the Wbp.

 

 

 

4/9



 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
25. Article 43, preamble and under e, of the Wbp reads as follows:
 

The controller may disapply Articles 9, first paragraph, 30, third paragraph, 33, 34, 34a, second paragraph, and 35
to the extent necessary in the interest of:
[...]
e. the protection of the data subject or the rights and freedoms of others.

 
26. The AP states first and foremost that the imposed order does not lead to TGB providing [APPLICANT] with a copy of

to provide the report. The burden only leads to an obligation to provide information about the
processing of the personal data of [APPLICANT] in that report, namely about
the purpose of the processing of the personal data, the categories of personal data contained in that
report have been processed, the recipients of that data and the available information about the origin
of the data. It appears from the e-mail of [APPLICANT]'s representative dated 26 July 2017 that
[APPLICANT] was already aware of the fact that [CONFIDENTIAL]. This means that it
including information about the processing of [APPLICANT]'s personal data in the
KBL investigation report does not lead to new information becoming known to [APPLICANT]
about, for example, the purpose of the processing of the personal data of [APPLICANT] in the
report. Therefore, there is no reason to conclude that the inclusion of this information on the
overview would lead to a violation of the rights and freedoms of TGB. The AP follows TGB too
not in its position that by invoking Article 43, opening words and under e, of the Wbp Article 35,
second paragraph, could not apply on this point.

 
27. The AP concludes that in the overview the purpose of the processing of the personal data of
[APPLICANT] in the context of the investigation carried out by KBL and the recipients of this
data has not been included and there is no reason not to provide this information
of [APPLICANT]. TGB has not met the burden to that extent.

 

3.2 Personal data of [APPLICANT] with regard to the forensic report

 
28. [APPLICANT] takes the position in the email of 20 July 2017 that the processing of

personal data of [APPLICANT] with regard to the forensic report is missing on the
Overview.
 

29. TGB stated during the on-site investigation that TGB provided the report in 2008 to the
lawyer of TGB. TGB has stated that it is no longer in possession of the report. The lawyer
TGB still owns the report. TGB takes the position that the processing of
personal data of [APPLICANT] with regard to the forensic report, however, not in the
overview should be included. To this end, it submits, first, that TGB at the time of the
preparing the summary was not aware of the existence of the report. This can be explained,
according to TGB, because the forensic report is not included in the file of [APPLICANT] and
TGB no longer has the report. Second, TGB argues that the report is currently

 

 

5/9



 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

was not in the possession of TGB when the overview was drawn up – and it is not now. She
therefore does not process any personal data of [APPLICANT] in that regard, according to TGB.
 

30. Based on the statements of TGB, the AP establishes that the forensic report personal data

of [APPLICANT]. Furthermore, the AP establishes that the report is not held by TGB, but by its own
lawyer.
 

31. The AP does not follow TGB's position that the information about the processing of the

personal data of [APPLICANT] did not have to be included in the report on the
overview, because TGB was not aware of the existence of the report. To this end, the AP points out
that the forensic investigation by [APPLICANT] was discussed at the hearing on 16 February 2017
brought. TGB was present at this hearing and also stated this in the letter from the AP of 11
received the report in May 2017. [APPLICANT]'s assertion that there was a forensic investigation
carried out and that his personal data are being processed as a result thereof, there was reason
must be for TGB to check whether that statement was correct. That research would have shown
that in the context of the forensic investigation personal data of [APPLICANT] have been collected by TGB
incorporated.

 
32. Nor does the AP follow TGB's position that the information about the processing of the

personal data in the report did not have to be included in the overview, because TGB
personal data is not processed in this regard. In this context, the AP considers the following important. Fixed
states that the lawyer of TGB in her capacity as attorney-at-law of TGB about the
forensic report. Contrary to what TGB assumes, this circumstance does not imply that
TGB no longer processes the personal data of [APPLICANT] contained in the report. To that end
the AP points out that the lawyer acts on behalf of TGB and is thus identified with TGB.
(ABRvS February 5, 2014, ECLI:NL:RVS:2014:308, ground for appeal 13.1). The AP therefore concludes that TGB is
point personal data of [APPLICANT].
 

33. The AP is of the opinion that by not including TGB in the overview of the personal data of

[APPLICANT] with regard to the forensic report, has not fully complied with the imposed
burden under duress.

 

3.3 Other processing
 

34. By email of 20 and 26 July 2017, [APPLICANT] indicated that he believed that the overview
of 7 July 2017 is also incomplete with regard to the following points: processing of personal data in
the internal memo of April 18, 2006, the processing of personal data with regard to a
[CONFIDENTIAL].
 

35. During the on-site investigation, the AP established that the overview of 7 July 2017 with regard to

the processing referred to under 34. is complete.

 

 

 

6/9



 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

3.4 The overview of August 14, 2017

 
36. The AP is faced with the question whether TGB with the provision to [APPLICANT] of the overview

dated 14 August 2017, accompanied by a separate overview with information about the processing of his
personal data in the forensic report, has still complied with the imposed burden under
penalty that terminates the period for which the penalty is forfeited.

 
37. The AP establishes that TGB by supplementing the overview and providing the separate

overview of 14 August 2017 with regard to the processing of personal data relating to
until the KBL report and the forensic report has yet to comply with the order subject to penalty
fulfilled, by indicating which categories of personal data are processed therein,
what the purpose of that processing is, who the recipients of the personal data are and what the
origin of the personal data.

 

4. Conclusion
 

38. In view of the above, the AP finds that TGB with the provision of the overview of

July 7, 2017 has not fully met the burden imposed on May 11, 2017.
 

39. The overview of 7 July 2017 is missing with regard to the conduct of the investigation and the

preparation of the KBL report the purpose of processing the personal data of
[APPLICANT] and the recipients of this data. TGB has not fully complied with this
parts 1, 2 and 4 of the imposed load.
 

40. The overview of 7 July 2017 also lacks, with regard to the forensic report, the

information regarding the purpose of the processing of the personal data of [APPLICANT], the
categories of data to which the processing relates, the (categories of) recipients
as well as the available information on the origin of the data. TGB has not fully
fulfilled parts 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the imposed load.
 

41. The beneficiary period expired on 11 July 2017. IGB therefore forfeits as legal successor to TGB

a penalty payment from 12 July 2017.

 
42. With the supplement of 14 August 2017 to the overview with a separate overview, TGB still has

paid the imposed burden.

 
43. The period for which the penalty payment is due therefore ends on 14 August 2017. IGB
forfeits a penalty over the period from July 12, 2017 to August 14, 2017. This means that
4 full weeks have passed before the imposed burden has been met. The height of the
penalty forfeit is 4 times € 12,000.00 is € 48,000.00.
 

 

 

7/9



 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
44. The penalty is forfeited by operation of law on the day after the end of the period of the 4 full weeks

in which the imposed burden has not been met. The penalty was forfeited by operation of law on August 9.
2017. Pursuant to Article 5:33 Awb, a forfeited penalty is paid within six weeks after
it is forfeited by operation of law. The AP has not yet made a payment on the date of this decision
receive.
 

45. It is settled case law of the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State that the

importance of the recovery of forfeited penalty payments must be given a heavy weight (see
including ABRvS 3 October 2012, 201202290/1/A1). Otherwise, the authority that
is based on the imposition of an order subject to a penalty. Only in special circumstances can
be waived in whole or in part. The AP has not shown any special
circumstances.

 

 
5. Decision

 
46. In view of the above and Article 5:37 Awb, the AP finds that:

 

i.
 - TGB has not fully complied with the requirements in providing the overview of 7 July 2017
order of 11 May 2017 imposed an order subject to a penalty.
- TGB with the provision of the supplemented overview of August 14, 2017 and the separate
overview of August 14, 2017, on August 14, 2017 has fully complied with the decree
order subject to penalty imposed on 11 May 2017.

 

 

IGB has thereby forfeited a penalty of €48,000.00.

II.
The AP proceeds to collect the penalty of €48,000,00 forfeited by IGB
plus the statutory interest.

 
47. The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB).

IGB therefore receives from the CJIB -
on behalf of the AP – a reminder to pay within two weeks. In the absence of timely payment
the outstanding amount will be increased by the reminder and any collection costs.

[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 
 

 
 

 

 

8/9



 

Date
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

 
7. Finally
 

48. In connection with Article 5:37 Awb, [APPLICANT], as interested party, receives a copy of this

decision.

 
 
 
 
 
 
I trust to have informed you sufficiently with this.
 
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority Personal Data,
 
[WG]
 
mr. A. Wolfsen
Chair
 
 
 
 
If you do not agree with this decision, you can, within six weeks of the date of dispatch of the decision pursuant to the
General Administrative Law Act submitting a notice of objection to the Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ Den
Haag, stating “Awb objection” on the envelope. Submitting a notice of objection suspends the operation of this
don't decide. If immediate urgency, in view of the interests involved, so requires, you can also request
make a provisional provision to the preliminary relief judge of the district court (administrative law sector) in the district,
in which your place of residence falls. In that case, you must enclose a copy of this decision.
 
 
 

 

 

  

 

 

9/9

