

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Transport and transport company - Inspection of the camera system focusing on company employees (UOOU-04151/20)
Provider of transport services


The inspection was initiated on the basis of a complaint, according to which the company was supposed to monitor and take records from the area of the social facility used for employees without authorization. Although the monitoring equipment was only directed at some parts of the restroom, an on-site investigation was important because it was suspected that the equipment could be collecting sensitive information about employees. The subject of the inspection was to find out how the company processes employees' personal data, not only through camera systems. Specifically, whether the company processes employees' personal data legally, whether data subjects have easy access to comprehensible information about the processing of their personal data and whether their rights are respected. It was important to focus on the collection of very sensitive information about employees. Among such data, it is possible to include, for example, the physical form of the data subject, which in this case should have been captured by cameras in the company's toilets. The authority found that in the case of the camera placed on the toilet, it was a dummy. According to the investigation, this device was not able to collect, store, or process camera recordings in any way. The company placed the dummy camera in the toilets in order to protect property, as according to its statement, it was a place where damage often occurred. Already during the inspection, the company removed the dummy camera from the toilet. While the dummy camera is not covered by the general regulation, all cameras in the company's facilities and the systems that store the records have been inspected, including an examination of the exact footage of all cameras. The inspectors stated that the company has a whole network of cameras in its premises and their use is in the interest of the company for the purpose of monitoring the company's premises and for the protection of property, and these records are kept for a reasonable period of time. Furthermore, the Office found that employees are sufficiently informed by the company about the processing of their personal data, they have brief and comprehensible information about where their personal data is stored and who has access to it. The processing of personal data through the camera system, as well as the processing of personal data of employees, has adequate technical and organizational security. Based on the results of the inspection, no administrative proceedings were initiated, but the Office proceeded to refer the complaint in question to the labor inspectorate.

Links
Anonymized control protocol (UOOU-04151/20-16).pdf [PDF, 358 kB]


ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2021 > Inspection activity in the field of personal data protection - 2nd semester > Provision of transport services > Transport and transport company - Inspection of the camera system with focus on company employees (UOOU-04151/20)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



