1/21

 File No.: PS/00422/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On April 12, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimed party). Notified of the initial agreement and after analyzing the allegations
presented, on May 20, 2022, the resolution proposal was issued that
is transcribed below:

<<

File No.: PS/00422/2021

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: B.B.B. (hereinafter, the complaining party) dated March 27, 2021
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency (hereinafter
AEPD). The claim is directed against A.A.A. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the part
claimed). The grounds on which the claim is based are as follows:

The complaining party states that the respondent party has sent him a report of his
daughter, a minor, from the email of a stationery-bookstore, which to her
criteria violates the duty of confidentiality. Subsequently, from your address
personnel, sends the requested report and invoices again, sending some with
personal data of third parties (name and surnames, DNI, postal address and period of
treatment).

Along with the notification are provided:
-Invoices (...) to his daughter.

-Invoices in the name of C.C.C., with your NIF.

-Invoices in the name of D.D.D., with your NIF.

-Invoices in the name of E.E.E., with your NIF.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/21

-Copy of an email sent to the complaining party from the address of
mail ***EMAIL.1 with two attachments.

-Copy of an email sent to the complaining party from the address of
mail ***EMAIL.2, with the same attachments as the previous one.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, of Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights (in
hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the claimed party for
to proceed with its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

The transfer, which was carried out in accordance with the regulations established in Law 39/2015, of
October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Administrations
(hereinafter, LPACAP) by electronic notification, was not collected by
the person in charge, within the period of making available, understanding rejected
in accordance with the provisions of art. 43.2 of the LPACAP on 05/01/2021, as stated
in the certificate that works in the file.

Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, assuming
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, by way of
informative, a copy was sent by mail that was reliably notified in
date 05/10/2021. In said notification, he was reminded of his obligation to relate
electronically with the Administration, and they were informed of the means of access to
said notifications, reiterating that, in the future, it would be notified exclusively
by electronic means.

On 07/22/2021, after having previously requested an extension of the term,
receives in this Agency a written response indicating:
-That prior to issuing a report, it has obtained the necessary consent of the
mother of the minor, daughter of the claimant, to issue a report and send the
invoices requested from the claimant.

-That, due to a computer incident, the required documentation had to be
sent from a punctual service provider, the security measures were taken
timely during the treatment and the incidences produced were resolved, with the
affected interested parties themselves, without, in any case, having had the minimum
risk to information security, due to the quality of the data.

-That at night, from your own computer once the incident has been solved,
had created a folder with the documentation of the requested invoices, (...), and
took, by mistake, the original folder, with the invoices corresponding to the quarter in
vigor.

THIRD: On June 27, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the claim filed by the claimant was admitted for processing.

FOURTH: On April 12, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/21

in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1,
of the Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations (in
hereinafter, LPACAP), for the alleged violation of Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD and Article
32 of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the RGPD.

Dated 04/13/2022 through the Electronic Notifications and Address Service
Electronic Enabled, the start agreement was notified.

FIFTH: Notification of the aforementioned start-up agreement in accordance with the rules established in
Law 39/2015, of October 1, on the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP), the respondent filed a written
of allegations in which, in summary, it states that:

1- The claimant, person in progressive serious conflict with the minor and her guardian
legal, had requested on 03-26-2021, that it be resent, (because it had already been
sent, at the express request of his ex-wife), the report of his daughter and the invoices of the
totality of the professional services of the claimed part of the past years. A
For this purpose, he provided his email. They proceeded to send him again, at the insistence
and allegation of urgency, also the report, made through the stationery
Come and Read, and at night from the computer in the defendant's office, the
bills. The same claimant informed the appellant via WhatsApp, on 03-27-
2021 (the next day), at 10:00 a.m. (Saturday), to say that I had
sent with all the invoices, 3 more invoices and that I was going to put it in
communication from someone. Being a holiday, without being able to verify causes and
affected, because it was a weekend, since the claimed party was not at the consultation,
where the documentation is kept by the administrative office in charge.

- “Although the notification was validly made by electronic means, taking for
carried out the procedure in accordance with the provisions of article 41.5 of the LPACAP, by way of
informative, a copy was sent by mail that was reliably notified in
date 05/10/2021. In said notification, he was reminded of his obligation to relate
electronically with the Administration, and they were informed of the means of access to
said notifications, reiterating that, in the future, it would be notified exclusively
by electronic means.”
Not having any document by analog or digital means, on such
communication, having two emails, for the same as they are
***EMAIL.3 and ***EMAIL.2 , in neither of these two does any communication appear, nor
rejected, as is mandatory, when it is not collected.
Furthermore, there is consolidated jurisprudence of our Court
Constitutional and supreme law that call into question the exclusive validity of the
electronic communications not received.
And as clearly indicated, Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, in its articles

“Article 64. Form of initiation of the procedure and duration.
……
2. When the purpose of the procedure is to determine the possible existence
of an infringement of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and of this law
organic, will be initiated by means of a start-up agreement adopted on its own initiative or as
consequence of claim If the procedure is based on a claim
formulated before the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in advance, this

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/21

will decide on its admission for processing, in accordance with the provisions of article 65 of this
organic Law"

If the prior communication, mentioned above, had reached them, as is mandatory,
had not been admitted for processing or they could have had the option of defending themselves, the
which they didn't have.

- They are manifestly unfounded, the complaining party requested that they be
will send information about some invoices, already sent in the different periods and a
report of his daughter, of the treatment carried out, for which the claimed party is
authorized.

- They are abusive, because at no time has data protection been breached,
with which the procedure did not have to be admitted for processing.

- do not provide rational indications of the existence of an infringement, because it makes
mention, that they were sent from the Ven y Lee stationery (only the
report), which, in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD, and as MANAGER OF
SAD TREATMENT (Without Access to Data), undertakes and obliges to keep secret
of all the personal data that you know and to which you have access in
under this relationship. Likewise, it will guard and prevent access to the data
of a personal nature to any unauthorized user or person outside the
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE TREATMENT The previous obligations are extended in
any phase of the treatment that of these data could be carried out and will still subsist
after they are finished, of what has been informed and complies according to its
commitment, in writing on your:

Privacy Policy (stationery COME AND READ).

1. Identification

Holder: F.F.F. NIF: ***NIF.1
Registered office: ***ADDRESS.1
Email: ***EMAIL.1

……

10. Security measures

The owner will treat the user's data at all times in a
absolutely confidential and keeping the secret of these, in accordance
with the provisions of the applicable regulations, adopting for this purpose the measures
of a technical-organizational nature necessary to guarantee the safety of their
data and avoid its alteration, loss, treatment or unauthorized access,
given the state of the technology, the nature of the data
stored and the risks to which they are exposed.

“Article 65. Admission to processing of claims

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/21

3. Likewise, the Spanish Agency for Data Protection may inadmit the
claim when the person in charge or in charge of the treatment, prior
warning issued by the Spanish Data Protection Agency would have
taken corrective measures aimed at putting an end to the possible
breach of data protection legislation and any of the
the following circumstances:

a) That no harm has been caused to the affected party in the case of infractions
provided for in article 74 of this organic law.”

That no harm has been caused to the interested party or his family, because it has not been
communicated to anyone outside their environment, any personal data, of the affected, or of the
patient.

"Article 65. Admission to processing of claims, point 3. "b) That the
right of the affected party is fully guaranteed through the application of
measures."

Since the information of the report is separated in a folder, filed separately,
outside the business management circuit and patient records, this
ANONYMIZATION, they cannot be associated with a particular individual. Once
the data is really applicable to the GDPR.

In addition, there is a written commitment of the security measures adapted to your
work complying with data protection.

Article 65. Admission to processing of claims
4. Before deciding on the acceptance of the claim for processing, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority may send it to the delegate of
protection of data that would have, where appropriate, designated the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment or to the supervisory body established for the
application of the codes of conduct for the purposes set forth in articles
37 and 38.2 of this organic law.

Which they have not done either, when the appointment of DPO has been communicated
and was listed, since 03/05/2019.

2- With regard to the formal aspect, that an invoice has been sent for a
person, who has made a visit to a psychotherapist, does not mean that they are data
sensitive and that person has no problem, rather than the desire to know more.

“The sine qua non principle in psychotherapy is the conception of the person
from a comprehensive perspective. How to deal with the problem or demand
It not only depends on the nature of it, but also on the person himself.
and their contexts. Each person is unique, as are their characteristics
personal and life circumstances.
Although part of the therapeutic approach consists of discovering the nature of the
problem, the origin and the causes, its peculiarities and the variables
related to it; It is fundamentally about equipping the person with a
greater self-awareness. The search for a solution

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/21

conflicts and the technique to apply, will be determined by the characteristics
of these and those of the subject itself.
Psychotherapy, in the sense of inhabiting and appropriating what one can
to become, from their true potentialities of self-realization or
personal development, aspires to crown that maxim of nosce te ipsum (know yourself
yourself) that says the classic proverb.”

There is no communication of any health data, since visiting a professional
psychotherapist, does not indicate any problem, may simply be training, or
knowledge of oneself, in no case is communicated, no data that informs of
otherwise or identify a problem.

Regulation (EU) 2016/679

Article 9, Treatment of special categories of personal data
……

2. Section 1 will not apply when one of the
following circumstances:
a) the interested party gave his explicit consent for the treatment of said
personal data for one or more of the specified purposes, except when the
Law of the Union or of the Member States establishes that the prohibition
mentioned in section 1 cannot be lifted by the interested party;

Indicates the claimed party that has the consent of the legal guardian, since the
patient is a minor, the claimant has requested and consented, again in writing,
he even gave his email for it.

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 Article 9, Treatment of special categories of
personal information

b) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of obligations and the
exercise of specific rights of the person in charge of the treatment or of the
interested in the field of labor law and safety and protection
social, to the extent authorized by the Law of the Union of the
Member States or a collective agreement under the law of the
Member States that establishes adequate guarantees of respect for the
fundamental rights and the interests of the interested party;

The communication of invoices and the data contained therein are, in compliance with the
tax and legal obligation, which this entails, which results in the legitimate interest
of that information.

Regulation (EU) 2016/679 Article 9, Treatment of special categories of
personal information

h) the treatment is necessary for purposes of preventive or occupational medicine,
evaluation of the work capacity of the worker, medical diagnosis,
provision of assistance or treatment of a health or social nature, or management of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/21

health and social care systems and services, on the basis of
Law of the Union or of the Member States or by virtue of a contract with
a healthcare professional and without prejudice to the conditions and guarantees
referred to in section 3;

3. The personal data referred to in section 1 may be processed at the
purposes mentioned in section 2, letter h), when its treatment is carried out by
a professional subject to the obligation of professional secrecy, or under his
responsibility, in accordance with the Law of the Union or of the States
members or with the standards established by national bodies
competent, or by any other person also subject to the obligation to
secrecy in accordance with the law of the Union or of the Member States or
of the standards established by the competent national bodies.

Finally, according to point 3, the claimed party is a professional subject to the
obligation of professional secrecy, which would allow you to handle data of categories
special, without having committed any infraction, since they have not been communicated,
more than name data, address, not even emails or phone numbers.

“Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5

Article 92. Data protection of minors on the Internet.

Educational centers and any natural or legal persons that
develop activities in which minors participate will guarantee the
protection of the best interest of the minor and their fundamental rights,
especially the right to the protection of personal data, in the
publication or dissemination of your personal data through services of the
society of Information.
When said publication or diffusion were to take place through services of
social networks or equivalent services must have the consent
of the minor or their legal representatives, in accordance with the provisions of article 7
of this organic law.

Article 7. Consent of minors. 2. Treatment of
data of minors under fourteen years of age, based on consent, will only be
lawful if that of the holder of parental authority or guardianship is stated, with the scope that
determined by the holders of parental authority or guardianship.

According to the respondent, the minor that appears on the invoices is the daughter of the
complaining party, from which he has authorization from the legal guardian, and authorization from the
complaining party in writing.
In addition, the concept of daughter, which appears in another invoice, does not indicate that she has the
consideration of a minor, since it is only the concept to be billed for the service,
carried out and because it is paid, it does not indicate in any case age.

Furthermore, Article 201 of our Penal Code, which must serve
as a teleological basis to how a sanctioning procedure should be understood
criminal, imposes that the complaint must be filed by whoever is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/21

affected; and neither the client, nor the denouncing father nor the mother are. They would be if a
case the three people corresponding to the invoices that were sent to the complainant
by mistake.
Well, those who can be considered affected are neither in the procedure nor
they want to denounce, nor have they been offended; offering testimony of the same, in case
to estimate the instruction. And furthermore, the forgiveness of the person affected aborts the penalty and the crime.

3- The GDPR broadly defines “personal data breaches” as
“all those violations of security that cause the destruction, loss or
accidental or unlawful alteration of personal data transmitted, stored or processed
otherwise, or unauthorized communication or access to such data”.
They will not be considered a personal data breach subject to articles 33 and
34 of the RGPD those incidents that:

• ……….

• They do not affect personal data processing carried out by a person in charge or
a manager.
• Occur in treatments carried out by a natural person in the field
domestic.

Therefore, not all security incidents are necessarily security breaches.
personal information. In turn, not every action that involves a violation of the
data protection regulations can be considered a data breach
personal.
For example, the mere fact of receiving emails cannot be considered
itself as a personal data breach when they cannot produce
consequences on the rights and freedoms of individuals. However, they must
be managed as security incidents, including the need to determine
if they have affected personal data. Based on the principle of responsibility
proactively, in the face of any event that may have consequences for the rights and
freedoms of the interested parties, the data controller must react and mitigate
said consequences

In the Guidelines 01/2021 on examples regarding the notification of data breaches
personal data adopted by the European Committee for Data Protection on the 14th of
January 2021 some examples of data breaches can be found
personal.

“A security incident that has not affected personal data or
processing of personal data is not a breach of personal data, given
that could not cause damage to the rights and freedoms of people
individuals whose data are subject to treatment, regardless of other
damages that may occur to the person responsible or in charge of the treatment.”

Even so, the defendant who has communicated the incident to those affected states,
the same Sunday, March 28 to March 31, 2021, by phone and in writing
(whatsapp), only for the indication of committing an erroneous communication, following the
security protocols, implemented in your consultation, with respect to the protection of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/21

the data, not having received at that time and up to 45 days later any
official notification.

4- The investigation of the facts that are the subject of this proceeding continues, along
that you have asked for an opinion as to whether the invoices, as such, should be included OR
NOT within REGULATION (EU) 2018/1807 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND
OF THE COUNCIL of 14 November 2018 on a framework for the free
circulation of non-personal data in the European Union, Document COM(2017) 7
end of 10.1.2017, COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE PARLIAMENT
EUROPEAN AND THE COUNCIL On the exchange and protection of personal data
in a globalized world and the document COM(2019) 250 COMMUNICATION OF THE
COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL, on guidelines on
the Regulation on a framework for the free movement of non-personal data in
the European Union, to strengthen what was previously said.

5- Regarding the procedure and assessment, it must be applied to all
criminal sanctioning procedures the most favorable norm; so you should
The Directive already in force 2019/1937, which establishes in its article 2
that this is the competent authority for complaints (in this case by those not affected) of
breaches of data protection issues. Assessment and procedure that
would be obliged to follow the Agency, if it is deemed competent. Directive
deploys all its effects, predominantly to the state standard, necessarily if it
generates rights to citizens, if this has not been transposed.

6-From the analysis of the resolutions of other data protection agencies of the
European Union, the non-conviction is observed for cases like the present one. Can not
therefore, to be applied a norm, neither in the state nor European space, in a different way
in one territory or another, as it would generate unfair procedures. and the rating of
entry as serious does not correspond, in any case, neither to reality nor to the correct
interpretation of the GDPR.

SIXTH: Attached as an annex is a list of documents in the
process.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: It is proven that the party complained against sent the complaining party a
email from the email address “***EMAIL.1“ with two files
attached in WORD format, whose titles, as shown in the documentation
provided in the file are as follows:

-“G.G.G Report.”

-“B.B.B. (copy…)"

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/21

SECOND: It is proven that, on the same date at a later time, the party
Respondent sent the complaining party an email from the address of
mail "***EMAIL.2", with two attached files, whose titles and format, as specified
can be seen in the documentation provided to the file, are the following:

-“2018-2019 invoice…”, in PDF format

-“G.G.G Report.” in WORD format

THIRD: It is accredited that the claimant party received, in addition to the invoices
(...) to your daughter:

-Invoices in the name of C.C.C., in which, in addition to your name, surnames and NIF,
It also states: “...”.

-Invoices in the name of D.D.D., in which, in addition to your name, surnames and NIF,
It also states: “...”.

-Invoices in the name of E.E.E., in which, in addition to your name, surnames and NIF,
It also states: “...” .
 

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Allegations adduced

In response to the allegations presented by the respondent party, it is proceeded to give
answer to them:

FIRST: The respondent alleges that, having two emails as they are
***EMAIL.3 and ***EMAIL.2, neither of these two contains any communication from the
AEPD, nor rejected, as is mandatory, when it is not collected, and that there is

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/21

consolidated jurisprudence of our Constitutional and Supreme Court that put in
question the exclusive validity of electronic communications not received.

That if the prior communication had reached them, as is mandatory, it would not have been
admitted for processing or they could have had the option to defend themselves, which they did not have.

-In this regard, this Agency reports that, although the notification was made
validly by electronic means, considering the procedure carried out in accordance with the
provided in article 41.5 of the LPACAP, for information purposes a copy was sent by
postal mail that was reliably notified on 05/10/202.

According to work in the file:

“The Support Service of the Electronic Notifications Service and Address
Electronic Enabled CERTIFIES:

- That the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation (through
of the General Secretariat of Digital Administration) is currently the head
of the Electronic Notifications Service (SNE) and Electronic Address
Authorized (DEH) in accordance with Order PRE/878/2010 and Royal Decree
139/2020, of January 28. The provider of said service since June 26
of 2015 is the National Currency and Stamp Factory-Royal Mint
(FNMT-RCM), according to the current Management Assignment of the Ministry of
Treasury and Public Administrations.

-That the notification was sent through said service: Reference:
7624066607e96c94c6ae Acting Administration: Spanish Agency for
Data Protection (AEPD) Holder: - ***NIF.1 Subject: "Notification" with the
following result:

Availability date: 04/20/2021 10:55:07
Automatic rejection date: 05/01/2021 00:00:00”

Likewise, it appears in the written file by which the claimed party, on the date
06/18/2021, requested an extension of the term, answering later, on the date
07/22/2021 to the request, so it cannot be argued that he was not aware
prior to the claim filed by the claimant.

SECOND: The respondent alleges that the complaining party requested that it be sent
information of some invoices, already sent in the different periods and a report of
his daughter, of the treatment carried out, for which the claimed party is authorized.

That at no time has data protection been breached, with which it did not have
to admit the procedure.

That there are no rational indications of the existence of an infraction, because it makes
mention, that they were sent from the Ven y Lee stationery (only the
report).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/21

That no harm has been caused to the interested party or his family, because it has not been
communicated to anyone outside their environment, any personal data, of the affected, or of the
patient, since the information of the report is separated in a folder, filed
apart, outside the circuit of business management and patient files, this
ANONYMIZATION, they cannot be associated with a particular individual.

-In this regard, and given that no infraction has been charged for the reasons
adduced, this Agency considers that it is not necessary to analyze such an allegation.

THIRD: The respondent alleges that, according to Article 65. Admission to processing of
the claims

"4. Before deciding on the acceptance of the claim for processing, the Agency
Spanish Data Protection Authority may send it to the delegate of
protection of data that would have, where appropriate, designated the person in charge or
in charge of the treatment or to the supervisory body established for the
application of the codes of conduct for the purposes set forth in articles
37 and 38.2 of this organic law.”

Which they have not done either, when the appointment of DPO has been communicated
and was listed, since 03/05/2019.

-In this regard, the Agency considers that, given that the respondent party received the
request and even answered it, he has not been left defenseless, with
Regardless of whether said request is addressed to the controller directly, or to
your DPD, in the latter case, provided that the AEPD has been previously notified
your appointment.

FOURTH: The respondent alleges that the fact that an invoice has been sent
of a person, who has made a visit to a psychotherapist, does not mean that
are sensitive data and that person has no problem, rather than the desire to
know more. There is no communication of any health data, since the visit to a
professional psychotherapist, does not indicate any problem, it may simply be
formation, or knowledge of oneself, in no case is communicated, no data
to report otherwise or identify a problem.

He adds that he has the consent of the legal guardian, since the patient is a minor,
the claimant requested it and consented, again in writing, even gave his email
email for it and that she is a professional subject to the obligation of secrecy
professional, which would allow you to handle data from special categories, without having
committed any infraction, since they have not been communicated, more than data of
name, address, not even emails or phone numbers.

-In this regard, this Agency makes it clear that what is being questioned are not the
invoices in the name of the daughter of the complaining party, but those others that she received in
the same file, corresponding to other people, of which appears:

-Name
-Surnames
-DNI

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/21

-Concept for which the invoice is issued: ...”, “...” and amount in euros.

All of them personal data that should not have been disclosed to the party
claimant.

We must mean that invoices are documents that refer to data
personal health and that are issued in favor, in this case, of people who
a psychotherapy service has been provided. In this sense, recital 35 of the
GDPR determines that:
 
“(35) Personal data relating to health should include all data
related to the state of health of the interested party that give information about their state of
past, present, or future physical or mental health.

The simple fact of showing that a person is attending sessions
of psychotherapy through an invoice, is a health data.

FIFTH: The respondent alleges that Article 201 of our Criminal Code, which
must serve as a teleological basis for how a procedure is to be understood
criminal sanction, imposes that the complaint must be filed
indispensably by who is affected; and neither the client, nor the denouncing father nor the
mother they are. They would be if a case the three people corresponding to the invoices
that were sent to the complainant in error. Well, those who can
consider themselves affected nor are they in the procedure, nor do they want to file a complaint, nor have
insulted; offering testimony of the same, in case the instruction estimates it. Y
furthermore, the pardon of the person affected aborts the penalty and the crime.

In this regard, this Agency recalls the regulation established in article 62 of the
Law 39/2015 of October 1, of the Common Administrative Procedure of the
Public Administrations, according to which:

"1. Complaint is understood as the act by which any person, in
compliance or not with a legal obligation, informs a body
administrative the existence of a certain fact that could justify the
ex officio initiation of an administrative procedure”

And with regard to the specific matter of Data Protection, according to article
57.1.f) of the RGPD,

"1. Without prejudice to other functions under these Regulations, it shall be the responsibility of
each control authority, in its territory:

(…)

f) deal with the claims presented by an interested party or by an organization,
organization or association in accordance with article 80, and investigate, to the extent
timely, the reason for the claim and inform the claimant about the course and
outcome of the investigation within a reasonable time, in particular if necessary
new investigations or closer coordination with another enforcement authority
control;

(…)
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/14

As stated in the file, receipt of the brief presented by the party
claimant, this Agency proceeded to process it, in compliance with the regulations
in force, giving transfer of the same to the claimed party, and initiating Procedure
Sanctioning party for having found a breach of the obligations contained
in the GDPR.

 Anyone who considers that their fundamental right has been violated can
file a claim with the AEPD. In this case we have been aware
in addition to facts that violate the RGPD and that are constitutive of infringement
administrative, the AEPD being competent to supervise compliance with the RGPD
and sanction if such facts constitute an administrative infraction attributable to the
claimed party.

Likewise, it is pointed out that the regulation contained in article 102.3 of the Penal Code:
“The forgiveness of the offended party or his legal representative, as the case may be, extinguishes the action
without prejudice to the provisions of the second paragraph of number 5 of section 1
of article 130”, does not apply to the administrative sphere. not even in his own
criminal scope can be applied to all crimes, but is limited to
certain private crimes and with the fulfillment of certain conditions.

SIXTH: The respondent alleges that in terms of the procedure and assessment, it must
apply for all criminal sanctioning procedures the most
favorable; Therefore, the Directive already in force 2019/1937 must be taken as cited, which
establishes in its article 2 that this is the competent authority for complaints (in this case
by those not affected) of infringements on data protection issues. Assessment
and procedure that the Agency would be obliged to follow, in case it is estimated
competent. The directive deploys all its effects, predominantly to the standard
state, necessarily if it generates rights for citizens, if it has not been
transposed.

-In this regard, this Agency points out that Directive 2019/1937 OF THE PARLIAMENT
EUROPEAN AND OF THE COUNCIL, of October 23, 2019, regarding the protection of
persons who report breaches of Union law, also
called whistleblowing, it has a totally different object: art. 1 and 2 offenses
EU law in different areas, not including that relating to infringements
committed by data controllers for breaching the GDPR.

SEVENTH: The respondent alleges that they have communicated to those affected the
incidence, the same Sunday, March 28 until March 31, 2021, by telephone and
in writing (whatsapp), only for the indication of committing an erroneous communication,
following the security protocols, implemented in your consultation, with respect to the
data protection, not having received at that time and up to 45 days
then no official notification.

-In this regard, this Agency recalls that no infraction has been charged for
breach of article 34 of the RGPD, so this allegation is not
considers it necessary to respond.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

III

15/21

Article 5.1.f) “Principles related to treatment” of the RGPD establishes:

Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

"1. The personal data will be:
(…)

f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”).”

In the present case, it is stated that the personal data of those affected, contained in the
defendant's database, were unduly exposed to a third party, either
that the claimant party received, together with the invoices corresponding to his daughter
minor, several invoices corresponding to three natural persons, in which
names, surnames and ID number of the interested parties were recorded.

Classification of the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

IV

If confirmed, the aforementioned infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 72 “Infringements considered very
serious” of the LOPDGDD indicates:
"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/21

Sanction for the infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD

v

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
considers that the infringement in question is serious for the purposes of the RGPD and that
It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established by the
article 83.2 of the RGPD.

As aggravating factors:

-The category of personal data affected by the infringement. (Art.
83.2.g).
Recital 35 of the RGPD establishes that "Among the personal data
related to health, all data related to the state of health must be included
of the interested party who give information about their state of physical or mental health
past, present or future”.

The STJUE of the Lindqvist case, of November 6, 2003, indicates that they are data
health those provided for in art. 8.1 of Directive 95/46/EC that includes
ALL aspects, both physical and PSYCHIC, of a person's health
person.

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
criteria established in section 2 of article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures”
of the LOPDGD.

As mitigating factors:

-Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.
(article 76.2.g)
The art. 34 of the LOPDGDD establishes:
"1. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment must designate a
data protection delegate in the cases provided for in article 37.1
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and, in any case, in the case of
following entities:

l) Health centers legally obliged to maintain the
clinical histories of the patients.

Health professionals are excepted who, even being
legally obligated to maintain the medical records of the
patients, exercise their activity on an individual basis.”

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD and the
Article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, with respect to the infraction committed by violating the
established in article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, allows a fine of €3,000 (three
a thousand euros).

SAW

Article 32 of the GDPR

Article 32 “Security of treatment” of the RGPD establishes:
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/21

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

a)pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.

2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular account shall be taken of
takes into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to guarantee that
any person acting under the authority of the person in charge or the person in charge and
has access to personal data can only process said data following
instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the Right of
the Union or the Member States.

In the present case, at the time of the breach, the claimed party did not
had taken adequate measures to prevent the exposure of personal data to
unauthorized third parties, as you emailed the complaining party
several invoices corresponding to other people.

Classification of the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

7th

If confirmed, the aforementioned violation of article 32 of the RGPD could lead to the
commission of the offenses typified in article 83.4 of the RGPD that under the
The heading "General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines" provides:

“The infractions of the following dispositions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/21

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43; (…)”

In this regard, the LOPDGDD, in its article 71 "Infringements" establishes that
“The acts and behaviors referred to in sections 4,
5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that result
contrary to this organic law.

For the purposes of the limitation period, article 73 “Infringements considered serious”
of the LOPDGDD indicates:
“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
(…)
f) The lack of adoption of those technical and organizational measures that
are appropriate to guarantee an adequate level of security when
risk of treatment, in the terms required by article 32.1 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
 (…)

Sanction for the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD

viii

For the purposes of deciding on the imposition of an administrative fine and its amount,
considers that the infringement in question is serious for the purposes of the RGPD and that
It is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the criteria established by the
article 83.2 of the RGPD:

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with the
criteria established in section 2 of article 76 “Sanctions and corrective measures”
of the LOPDGDD:

The balance of the circumstances contemplated in article 83.2 of the RGPD and the
Article 76.2 of the LOPDGDD, with respect to the infraction committed by violating the
established in article 32 of the RGPD, allows a fine of €2,000 (two thousand
euros).

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
A.A.A., with NIF ***NIF.1 with a fine of 3000 euros for the infraction of the article
5.1.f) of the RGPD, and 2,000 euros for the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, (5,000
euro in total)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/21

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
informs that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of the amount of the same. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at 2,400 euros for the infraction of the
article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, and 1,600 euros for the infringement of article 32 of the RGPD,
(4,000 euros in total) and its payment will imply the termination of the procedure. The
effectiveness of this reduction will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount specified
above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited, must do so
effective by depositing it in restricted account number ES00 0000 000 0000 0000
0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the entity
banking CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause, for
voluntary payment, reduction of the amount of the sanction. Also, you must send the
proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection to proceed to close
The file.

By virtue of this, you are notified of the foregoing, and the procedure is made clear to you.
so that within TEN DAYS you can allege whatever you consider in your defense and
present the documents and information that it considers pertinent, in accordance with
Article 89.2 of the LPACAP.

RRR
INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

EXHIBIT

File Index PS_00422_2021

03-27-2021 Claim from B.B.B.

04-20-2021 Transfer claim to A.A.A.

05-04-2021 Transfer claim to A.A.A.

 1

 48

101

06-18-2021 Request for extension of the term of A.A.A.

06-19-2021 Request for extension of the term of A.A.A.

07-22-2021 Response to request from A.A.A.

08-11-2021 Admission to B.B.B.

04-12-2022 A. opening to A.A.A.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

184

926-050522

154

158

166

181

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/21

04-13-2022 Info. Claimant to B.B.B.

195

04-29-2022 Allegations of A.A.A. 198
>>

SECOND: On June 3, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
the sanction in the amount of 4000 euros making use of the reduction foreseen in the
motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/21

The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00422/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

968-230522

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

