 

press release

 

In keeping with European Data Protection Day on January 28, 2023:

Video clips from “Privacy Policy Easily Explained” in the central educational database

of countries available

 

 

Erfurt, January 26, 2023: How do I explain what data protection

means? It's easy and clear: When teachers with young

If people want to talk about informational self-determination, they can

use 18 short videos and eleven worksheets for this, which the initiative “Data protection goes

zur Schule (DSgzS)" together with the data protection supervisory authorities in Bavaria,

Baden-Württemberg, Hesse and Thuringia as part of the “Data Protection

goes to school”. The working materials were last in the headquarters

Mundo education database included. The spokesman for the initiative Rudi Kramer

is pleased about the recognition for the work in the interest of the schools: "We see

confirms us on our way to teachers in their everyday work

support and to make our knowledge available in a professional and age-appropriate manner.”

The videos have a length between about 1:30 minutes and almost 6 minutes

treat, for example, the basics of data protection, such as profiling, which data

can be processed by smartphones and why passwords are important.

The worksheets can also be easily edited online as a PDF document,

so that unnecessary printing is eliminated.

The senior official at the state commissioner for data protection and

Freedom of information Baden-Württemberg Dr. Jan Wacke says: “Young people

move completely naturally in the digital world. We offer with these

Videos give you the opportunity to get to grips with important topics in an uncomplicated and direct manner

to deal with data protection."

dr Lutz Hasse, the Thuringian state commissioner for data protection and

Freedom of Information

(TLfDI), added:

"The videos

inform with lower

Postal address :
 
 
 
 
*The specified email address is only used to receive simple messages without signature/encryption and for messages encrypted with PGP.

Telephone: 0361 57 3112900
 
Email*: poststelle@datenschutz.thueringen.de
Internet: www.tlfdi.de

PO Box 900455
99107 Erfurt
 
 

Office building: Hässlerstraße 8

99096 Erfurt

 
 

 
 

 
 

 


 
inhibitions and offer a helpful introduction to students

- 2 -

to convey data protection in a contemporary manner.”

The Hessian Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Prof. Alexander

Roßnagel says: "The recording of the data protection video clips in the central

Education database of the countries is a nice success for the project. He wears it

Importance of early education on privacy issues. The young people

are 'digital natives' today, it is all the more important to ensure data protection right from the start

to think along."

The "Mundo" portal was developed by the Institute for Film and Image (FWU) as part of the

DigitalPakts School developed on behalf of the 16 federal states. "Mundo" is a

building block of

common education media infrastructure

(SODIX). Over

Corresponding metadata of the interface can also country these offers

for inclusion in their respective media portals and/or learning management systems

take over in order to make them even more present with teachers and students.

"We haven't been able to sensitize schoolchildren on site for a long time. For this reason

we decided to shoot the video, the result of which is now available to teachers

Teacher can serve as teaching material and with the help of which students

Pupils can inform themselves,” says Michael Will, President of the Bavarian

State Office for Data Protection Supervision.

Further information: The initiative "Data protection goes to school" (DSgzS), das

Bavarian State Office for Data Protection Supervision, the Hessian Commissioner for

Data protection and freedom of information and the Thuringian State Commissioner for the

Data protection and freedom of information have an identical press release

published. The video clips were

in December 2022

to the central ones

Education databases of the countries included. The state representative for

Data protection and freedom of information Baden-Württemberg provides these videos

on his homepage and on his PeerTube instance.

You can also find the videos on the TLfDI website under the link:

https://tlfdi.de/datenschutz/schule-1/links-fuer-lehrkraefte-und-schueler/

 
 

dr Lutz Hasse

Thuringia State Commissioner for Data Protection

and freedom of information

Hässlerstrasse 8

99096 Erfurt
www.tlfdi.de

