8 June 2022
Using the registered right of inspection for vehicle maintenance history data Keywords: Right of inspectionVehiclesMaintenance informationLegal basis: decision in accordance with the EU General Data Protection RegulationDiary number: 8896/152/2019
Decision of the Data Protection Commissioner
Thing
About the concept of personal data and the data subject's right to access the data
Registrar
Oy BMW Suomi Ab
The applicant's requirements with justification
On 18 November 2019, the applicant has initiated a case at the data protection commissioner's office, which essentially concerns the data subject's right to access information. The issue is the so-called vehicle maintenance history information. The applicant has said that he bought a 2010 used BMW brand vehicle from X Oy on January 11, 2019. At that time, the vehicle had been driven a total of 151,000 kilometers. Defects had immediately appeared in the vehicle, which, according to the applicant's view, had been known to the dealership. The applicant has said that certain signs would indicate that the defect had already been detected during the previous owner's time, and that the vehicle had also had procedures performed at an authorized BMW service center during the previous owner's time. The applicant has said that the most significant of these defects is related to the vehicle's gearbox, which should be completely replaced. The applicant has said that he had been in contact with the seller, who, however, had not taken the necessary corrective measures. The applicant has said that he requested the maintenance history information of the vehicle in question from Oy BMW Suomi Ab for the entire life cycle of the vehicle. However, Oy BMW Suomi Ab has not agreed to the applicant's request. The applicant has submitted the dispute to the Consumer Disputes Board. The applicant has also filed an edition lawsuit in the case in the district court of Itä-Uusimaa.
Statement received from the registrar
The registrar has been asked for a preliminary investigation and clarification in the matter. The registrar has issued his report on the matter on 15 September 2020.
Background of the case: vehicle maintenance history and data protection regulations
In the report given, it has initially been stated that the concept of "maintenance history" of the vehicle is not defined in the legislation. Otherwise, the concept is not particularly well-established or precisely defined in its content.
Vehicle maintenance books: accounting for periodic maintenance
In the given report, it has been stated that the vehicle's "maintenance book" is traditionally spoken of in Finland. This refers to a physical book or notebook in which entries are made to show that the vehicle's periodic maintenance has been carried out in accordance with the maintenance plan defined by the manufacturer. In practice, the vehicle manufacturer prints a ready-made blank maintenance book, to which pre-titled boxes and/or sections have been added for certain periodic maintenance. Empty maintenance books are also sold in shops. When the vehicle has been regularly serviced, the service shop makes some sort of entry in the service book.
By default, no other entries are made in the maintenance book regarding periodic maintenance in accordance with the maintenance plan. The maintenance book therefore does not usually contain notes on all maintenance procedures performed on the vehicle.
The concept of maintenance book is not defined in the law, but rather it is a question of the industry's established operating method. A carefully filled out service log can show that the vehicle has been properly serviced. Maintaining a maintenance log is not a statutory obligation. The possible obligation to hand over the maintenance book to the buyer of the vehicle is mainly resolved in the light of general principles of contract law.
Electronic information related to vehicle maintenance
More and more vehicle manufacturers also offer their customers electronic maintenance books. Entries in electronic maintenance books are stored in the manufacturer's information systems (and usually also in the vehicle's own on-board computer). Maintaining an electronic maintenance book is not a statutory obligation.
Vehicle maintenance information other than periodic maintenance can also be entered in the electronic maintenance books. In some situations, the systems may also store information or fault codes regarding, for example, the vehicle's technical operation or automatic diagnostics. Statistical services related to the vehicle's fuel consumption or emissions or other similar value-added services may also be available. In this regard, the given report has also stated that due to the mentioned development, precise delineations regarding the concepts of the vehicle's maintenance book and especially the broader maintenance history are more difficult. Oy BMW Suomi Ab has submitted that it is not clear what the applicant meant by the term "maintenance history" in general.
About the nature of the data as personal data
Despite the above, the controller has stated that it considers the maintenance history data to be personal data in principle. Such information describes, for example, how the owner (or holder) of the vehicle has used his vehicle, how much he has driven it, whether he has carried out periodic maintenance on time, the service shops used, how much maintenance the vehicle has required due to his driving style, and so on. Consequently, the controller has stated that he assumes that most of this information directly or indirectly describes the owner of the vehicle and his activities and that the information can be connected to him by legal means, at least with the help of the vehicle's registration information (cf. for example the decision of the EU Court in case C-582/14 (Breyer ).
Despite the above, the controller has stated that it is entirely possible that a certain part of the maintenance history would not be personal data. In this respect, however, according to the data controller's interpretation, the matter does not fall within the competence of the data protection commissioner. According to the controller's understanding, the data protection officer does not have the authority to order the controller to hand over information other than personal information.
Since the maintenance history information primarily and mainly describes the activities of the current owner (or holder) of the vehicle, the information is, in the opinion of the registrar, personal data of the current owner (or holder) of the vehicle. The vehicle's maintenance history thus consists of a chain of personal data of different owners (or holders).
According to the registrar's understanding, the applicant has demanded that such maintenance history data created during the previous owner's time be handed over to him. According to the controller's understanding, the general data protection regulation or any other regulation supervised by the data protection officer does not require the disclosure of such information.
Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation and the data subject's right to access information
In the report given, it has been shown that, on the one hand, it can generally be considered that Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation is not at all applicable to such a situation, which essentially concerns the personal data of another person. Pursuant to the article, the data subject can demand a copy of the information concerning him. However, according to the registrar's view, the information in question does not concern the applicant himself, but the previous owners of the vehicles, i.e. third parties in relation to the claims currently under consideration.
Despite the above, it has been found possible to claim that the information in question would (very indirectly) also describe the current value of the applicant's vehicle and thus also his financial conditions. Such an interpretation would, however, go very far in the view of the controller and would lead to difficult problems of principle. If it were considered that a mere indirect effect on the valuation of a certain person's wealth would make the information personal information always concerning him and falling within the scope of Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation, this would mean a very broad right of access to information about other people's affairs as well. The registrar has mentioned as an example the disruptive behavior of a certain resident of the housing association, the problem of addiction and the difficulties in meeting his share of the company loan. The registrar has submitted that these factors would also affect the value of the neighboring apartments of such a person. The registrar is surprised by an interpretation in which Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation would even in principle be considered to give other shareholders the right to obtain information from various registers about the life of such a problem resident on the basis that this information would also affect the valuation of their assets. The controller has stated that it should be obvious that this would in fact be contrary to the basic purpose of the General Data Protection Regulation.
On the other hand, in the report given, it is stated that agreeing to the applicant's request would "adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others [i.e. previous owners of the vehicle]" as referred to in Article 15, paragraph 4 of the General Data Protection Regulation. It has also been stated that handing over the data would mean interfering with the rights and freedoms of the previous owners protected by Section 10 of the Constitution and the General Data Protection Regulation. The exception mentioned above has been presented as applicable in any case. In the opinion of the controller, the interest of the applicant cannot be considered more important than the privacy protection of the previous owners.
The registrar has drawn attention to the fact that vehicles are often sold in several generations. It is possible that the service history contains information about persons who are not in any contractual or other relationship with the current owner of the vehicle. Attention has also been paid to the fact that the obligation to hand over the vehicle's maintenance book is basically within the scope of freedom of contract. It is therefore expressly possible to also agree that the maintenance book will not be handed over. In this context, it has also been stated that the data protection regulation is not intended to reduce the freedom of contract between the parties in this respect.
The registrar has also submitted that the legislator would have created the editorial regulation of Chapter 17, Section 40 of the Code of Judicial Conduct specifically for the needs of access to information related to disputes. If the court considers that the conditions for the edition are met, it can also oblige a party outside the dispute to provide documents. It has been continued, however, with regard to the legislator's edition, which requires that the main dispute be pending in court. The legislator must have wanted to set a certain seriousness threshold for imposing an edition in this way - unless the matter is pending in court, it is not (at least not yet) so serious that it would be necessary to interfere with the rights of third parties. When applying the general data protection regulation, according to the data controller, the value choices that the legislator has made in connection with the editing regulation must be taken into account. In the controller's view, the General Data Protection Regulation should not be given an interpretation that would override these choices made by the legislator.
Legitimate interest and disclosure of information
In the explanation given, it has been emphasized that the data controller does not take a definitive position on whether it would nevertheless have the right to voluntarily hand over the information requested by the applicant, for example based on the interest rate referred to in Article 6, Paragraph 1, Subsection f of the General Data Protection Regulation. In any case, the controller has submitted that such a right does not mean an obligation to hand over this information.
The applicant has referred to the data protection commissioner's guidance in case 870/452/17 (issued on 21 March 2017). The solution is from the period before the application of the General Data Protection Regulation began. In any case, according to the controller, the final result of the solution corresponds to the above:
See for example, the decision of the EU Court in case C-13/16, Rīgas satiksme, paragraph 34: "[the balance of interest basis] must be interpreted in such a way that it does not impose an obligation to hand over personal data to a third party, so that the third party can file a civil action for damages to demand compensation for the damage caused by the person who is affected by the Personal Data Protection ".
"If you have bought the car elsewhere, the car dealership can provide information about the car's maintenance and mileage to the extent that this information is usually given to prospective buyers with the service book. In these respects, however, the release of information is under the consideration of the service shop."
In the report given, it has been found that it is possible to discuss the extent to which the recommendations behind the decision still otherwise correspond to the current legal situation. However, according to the data controller's point of view, the general data protection regulation has hardly changed the interpretation of the quoted part. The controller has therefore considered that it has discretionary power as to whether or not it will hand over the information.
The registrar has stated that it has considered it correct to hand over the information required now, if the previous owners give their consent or if there is a legal obligation in question. The registrar has stated that he will hand over the information if the court so orders in light of the editing regulation. In its judgment 20/25156 of 4 April 2020, the District Court of Eastern Uusimaa has rejected the applicant's claim to this effect on the basis that the applicant has not initiated the claim regarding the main dispute itself.
In this connection, the controller has finally referred to the German Federal Data Protection Act (bundesdatenschutzgesetz, "BDSG") and the interpretation of its § 34 [explained below in the section "Assessment of cross-border applicability"].
On the nature of maintenance history data
The controller has stated that it considers as personal information all such information that, in accordance with the definition provision of Article 4 of the General Data Protection Regulation, can be directly or indirectly connected to a natural person, especially when interpreted in the light of Breyer and Nowak and other decisions of the EU Court. In principle, this has been presented to mean that the majority of all information related to the maintenance of a certain vehicle ("vehicle unit") is personal information, because this information can be relatively easily combined with information about who has owned the vehicle at any given moment. In this context, the controller has emphasized that it does not even necessarily aim for the data to be widely identifiable as intended by the General Data Protection Regulation, but considering the vehicle-specific nature of the data, it may be very difficult for the controller to prevent this. It has been further emphasized that the data controller does not in itself rule out that the "historical information" also includes non-identifiable information (especially, for example, detached from its vehicle-specific context). According to the controller's opinion, this must be resolved on a case-by-case basis. Regarding this information, however, according to the data controller, the matter does not fall under the authority of the data protection commissioner, which is why the report has focused on information that is considered personal information.
Retention of maintenance history data
The controller has stated that it will keep data only as long as it is necessary in relation to the need. In the case of maintenance book information, this often means in practice that the information is kept for the lifetime of the vehicle (and possibly for some time after this), as would also be done for paper maintenance books. This information may be necessary for vehicle maintenance and related liability issues throughout the vehicle's life cycle.
The applicant's equivalent
The applicant is given the opportunity to give a response in the case. The applicant has given his response on 22 October 2020.
In the response given, it is stated that the place of purchase of the vehicle does not affect the obligation of the registrar to deliver the entire maintenance history of the vehicle to the applicant. The applicant has emphasized from the beginning that he requested that the data controller remove personal data from the requested information.
The applicant has stated that by maintenance history information, he meant the vehicle's maintenance and repair history information for the entire life cycle of the vehicle. The applicant has specified that he means the following information: date, mileage, reason for repair and description of the work performed.
In the response given, it has been stated that the applicant's request is related to the gearbox and air spring defect found in the vehicle. The applicant has suspected that the Car Dealer knew about the repairs to the vehicle before making the sale. The counterclaim states that the car dealer had free access to the vehicle's maintenance history information.
According to the applicant's view, the vehicle's maintenance history does not contain personal data, but only the maintenance, repairs and other measures performed on the vehicle at the date level. According to the applicant, the controller's claim about the nature of the data as personal data cannot possibly be true. The applicant has specifically asked the controller to delete personal data from the data. The applicant has submitted that the district court has stated in its judgment that the maintenance history is not personal information. [For the sake of clarity, it must be stated that the district court has not so stated.] The judgment of the district court referred to by the applicant has been attached to the reply.
In the given response, it is further presented that the General Data Protection Regulation obliges to deliver all information about the vehicle to its owner. According to the applicant's view, this cannot be limited only to the most recent owner, and according to the applicant, it does not matter in which store the transaction was made. According to the applicant, it would be unreasonable if the brand dealer notified by the vehicle importer was the only entity whose duty as a seller was to hand over the vehicle's service history. It has been found that the sale of the vehicle often takes place from different stores. If the buyer only had access to service history information when buying a vehicle from branded stores, it would put dealers and buyers in an unequal position. The applicant has further presented the data protection commissioner's line that "information is required to be given to the authority based on the statutory obligation (police, taxman, etc.)". The applicant has stated that he requested information specifically because of the matter pending at the Consumer Disputes Board. According to the applicant's opinion, the registrar must be obliged to comply with the applicant's request.
On the evaluation of cross-border applicability
The General Data Protection Regulation separately provides for the handling of matters that are cross-border as defined in Article 4, Section 23 of the General Data Protection Regulation. Such matters must be handled by the competent supervisory authority in accordance with Article 56 and Chapter VII of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Oy BMW Suomi Ab has announced in its preliminary report on August 25, 2020 that it acts as the data controller for the processing of the personal data in question. Oy BMW Suomi Ab is one of the independent companies of the BMW Group and it operates only in Finland. Despite what has been said, Oy BMW Suomi Ab follows the BMW Group's internal instructions.
The location of the central administration of Oy BMW Suomi Ab is in Finland. The office where the central administration is located has been reported to make the decisions about the personal data processing at hand now. In addition, this office of the location of the central administration has been told that it has the authority to implement the decisions related to the processing of personal data at hand.
In the preliminary report, it has also been established that Oy BMW Suomi Ab complies with the provisions of Article 6, Paragraph 1, Subsection f of the General Data Protection Regulation and the Bavarian Supervisory Authority's interpretation of Section 34 of the German Federal Data Protection Act (bundesdatenschutzgesetz, "BDSG"). According to the mentioned interpretation, it is first necessary to find out which information describes the actions of the current owner and which information describes the actions of the previous owners. According to the aforementioned interpretation, the information of previous drivers and/or owners cannot be disclosed without the express consent of these previous drivers and/or owners or without a legal obligation to disclose the information.
Since then, the data protection commissioner's office has been in contact with the Bavarian supervisory authority (Bayerisches Landesamt für Datenschutzausficht) and inquired about its view on the cross-border nature of the matter. In turn, the Bavarian supervisory authority has been in contact with BMW AG, which, in its reply to the Bavarian supervisory authority, among other things, has confirmed what the data protection officer of Oy BMW Suomi Ab presented to the office. In addition, this response has stated that the BMW Group companies have agreed to comply with certain minimum standards related to data protection matters, which are, however, adaptable to local requirements at any given time. According to the answer, compliance with these minimum standards does not affect the independent status of BMW Group companies as data controllers.
It has also been found to be the case that BMW AG in Munich maintains a database in which, for example, service history information is stored. Oy BMW Suomi Ab has access to said database. According to the answer given to the Bavarian supervisory authority, this also does not affect Oy BMW Suomi Ab's independent position as a data controller in the implementation of the registered rights, such as when handling the requests of the registered to access the vehicle's repair and maintenance history information. With regard to the exercise of registered rights, BMW AG cannot, in BMW AG's view, be considered a head office within the meaning of Article 4, Section 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
At the end of its response to the Bavarian supervisory authority, BMW AG has presented its view that, for data protection reasons, the information about the vehicle's repair history is in principle limited to the owner's maintenance time. Accordingly, the registered persons are provided with correction information for the corresponding holder period. In addition, service history (but not repair history) can be stored electronically in the BMW vehicle itself. This can be shown to the data subject.
The supervisory authority of Bavaria has stated in its response to the data protection commissioner's office that it considers that Oy BMW Suomi Ab has won in the case to be considered the data controller. Thus, the matter would not appear to be cross-border.
Since then, Oy BMW Suomi ab has taken a position on the cross-border issue. In this statement dated May 13, 2022, it has been stated that Oy BMW Suomi Ab and BMW AG are legally independent legal entities. It has been continued by stating that the separation principle of company law is basically applied to the mentioned companies, even though the companies are part of the same BMW Group.
In terms of data protection law, the companies have been presented as independent data controllers, or, where applicable, processors. The companies of the BMW Group have been found to have agreed among themselves on certain minimum requirements and policies regarding data protection, which are generally followed throughout the group. However, the country company, not BMW AG, decides on the introduction of these requirements and the guidelines related to the requirements in a certain country. The land company independently assesses the extent to which it is necessary to deviate from the guidelines, for example due to local regulations or local market conditions or practices.
According to the statement, the aforementioned also applies to matters related to the maintenance history of vehicles. Technically, data is stored on servers operated by BMW AG, but personal data and related decision-making are the responsibility of the country company. The land company is also responsible for customer service and the implementation of registered rights, as well as related decision-making. Accordingly, the land company itself outlines what information can be disclosed as part of information requests and under what conditions the information can be disclosed.
At the end of the statement, it has been stated that BMW AG is therefore not to be considered as the head office within the meaning of Article 4, Section 16 of the General Data Protection Regulation in this matter. It has also been stated that the authority in the matter rests with the office of the data protection commissioner.
On applicable legislation
The General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and the Council (data protection regulation) has been applied since 25 May 2018. As a regulation, the regulation is immediately applicable law in the member states. The General Data Protection Regulation contains national leeway, on the basis of which national legislation can be used to supplement and specify matters specifically defined in the regulation.
A legal question
The Data Protection Commissioner assesses and decides the applicant's case on the basis of the aforementioned General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The case involves the following legal issues:

1) whether the vehicle's maintenance history and repair data are personal data referred to in Article 4, Paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation;

2) whether the maintenance history and repair data are personal data of the new owner (or holder) of the vehicle purchased used as referred to in Article 4, Paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation; and

3) if the maintenance history and repair information is the personal data of the new owner (or holder) of the vehicle purchased used as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, does the new owner of the vehicle have the right to access this information provided for in Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Decision of the Data Protection Commissioner
Decision
Vehicle maintenance history and repair data are personal data referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Service history and repair data are not personal data of the new owner (or holder) of a vehicle purchased used as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Since the maintenance history and repair information is not the personal data of the new owner (or holder) of the vehicle purchased used, as referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the applicant does not have the right to access this information pursuant to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Reasoning
About the concept of personal data
According to Article 4, paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, personal data refers to all data related to an identified or identifiable natural person. An identifiable natural person is considered to be a natural person who can be directly or indirectly identified, especially on the basis of identifying information such as name, social security number, location information, online identification information or one or more physical, physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural or social factors characteristic of him.
The definition of personal data therefore consists of four main components. These elements are i) all data, ii) related, iii) identified or identifiable and iv) natural person. The fact that personal data is by definition "all" data "related" to an identified or identifiable natural person shows that the legislator intended the concept of personal data to be broad. Therefore, personal data also includes information that describes a person's activities and behavior.
Personal data is therefore information related to either 1) an identified or 2) an identifiable natural person. According to recital 26 of the preamble of the General Data Protection Regulation, when determining the identifiability of a natural person, all means that either the controller or another person can reasonably likely use to identify the said natural person directly or indirectly should be taken into account. In turn, the said reasonable consideration should take into account all objective factors, such as the costs of identification and the time required for identification, as well as the technology and technical development available at the time of processing.
Therefore, when assessing whether a natural person is identifiable or not, 1) first of all, the means that either the data controller or another person could directly or indirectly use to identify the data subject should be identified and 2) secondly, it should be assessed whether the aforementioned means are reasonably likely to be available to the data controller or another person taking into account all objective factors, such as the costs of identification and the time required for identification, as well as the technology and technical development available at the time of processing.
It should be noted that the data protection working party in accordance with Article 29, which preceded the European Data Protection Board (EDPB), has given practical instructions on the concept of personal data [Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 4/2007 on the concept of personal data, adopted 20 June 2007 (01248/07/EN WP 136), also published in Finnish: Statement 4/2007 on the concept of personal data, issued on June 20, 2007 (01248/07/EN WP 136)].
According to these instructions, a natural person can be considered identifiable when the person has not yet been identified, but the person can nevertheless be identified. It has also been stated that indirect recognizability refers to situations where a natural person can be identified by combining different information. The guidelines emphasize the individuality of the assessment.
It has also been stated in the above-mentioned instructions that in some cases the information primarily concerns an object, not a person. However, the objects basically belong to someone. It is also common for a person to influence an object or an object to a person in one way or another. Furthermore, in the above-mentioned instructions, the vehicle's maintenance information is mentioned as an example. Vehicle maintenance information maintained by a car mechanic or repair shop contains information about the vehicle (odometer reading, dates of maintenance inspections, technical problems and condition). The information is linked to a specific registration number, which in turn can be linked to the owner of the vehicle. When the repair shop combines the vehicle and owner's information for invoicing, it "concerns" the owner or the driver.
It should also be noted that the maintenance history and repair information can describe, for example, how the owner or holder of the vehicle has used his vehicle, how much he has driven it, whether he has carried out scheduled maintenance on time, the service shops used, how much maintenance the vehicle has required due to his driving style, and so on. Accordingly, the information considered as service history information can directly or indirectly describe the owner or holder of the vehicle or the activities of the owner or holder of the vehicle. In addition, the service history information can be connected by reasonable means to the person who owned or controlled the vehicle at a certain time.
It should also be noted that the European Commission in its explanatory background memo on the personal data directive (COM(92) 422 final - STN 287(15.10.1992), p. 9.) has considered the vehicle registration number to be information that can be used to indirectly identify a person, and that it therefore, it would be personal data referred to in the Personal Data Directive. In this context, reference should also be made to the Data Protection Board's decision 1/2010 (issued on February 1, 2010). In the case under consideration by the Data Protection Board, there was a question about maintenance history information entered into the vehicle's register. In this case, the information collected in the register was never intended to be connected to the owner of the car or any other person. The vehicle's maintenance history information was supposed to be stored and kept in the register, regardless of who owned the car at any given time. In its decision, the Data Protection Board has stated that even if certain identifiers do not, in principle, enable the identification of a person, the person might be identifiable, because the information, combined with other information, makes it possible to distinguish the person from others. The "other information" in question does not necessarily need to be in the possession of the controller. The decision further states that the fact that the registrar does not have information about the owner of the vehicle, nor the intention to obtain such information, would not be decisive in assessing the nature of the vehicle's registration number as personal information. On the contrary, it would be important that the information in question enables the person to be distinguished from other persons
To determine whether a person is identifiable, all reasonably practicable means must be taken into account. Based on the vehicle's registration number, the information of the vehicle's current owner can be obtained by text message, for example through the services of Fonecta and Elisa. In these services, the price of an individual registration number search is 2.90–6.50 euros. Vehicle owner and keeper information as well as history information are also available from the Transport and Communications Agency's Traficom traffic register. Information about the vehicle's owner based on the vehicle's registration number can therefore be obtained easily and at quite reasonable costs by anyone.
Based on the reasons presented above, the data protection commissioner considers that the vehicle's maintenance history and repair data are, in principle, personal data referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Despite the above, some of the vehicle's maintenance history and repair information may be personal information other than the above. Article 58(2)(c) of the General Data Protection Regulation does not apply to situations involving requests for such information.
Vehicle service history and repair information and the new owner of a used vehicle
First of all, let's state that the same information can be related to several different people. It is therefore possible that the same information simultaneously relates to several different natural persons.
According to the aforementioned guidelines of the European Data Protection Board, when assessing whether the information "concerns" a certain person, the so-called content or purpose or result factor mapping can be used in the assessment. The content factor is at hand when the information is about a specific person. Patient information is mentioned as an example. Patient information concerns a specific patient. The purpose factor, on the other hand, is present when the data is used or is likely to be used with the purpose of evaluating or treating a certain person in a certain way. The result factor is again at hand when the use of data is likely to affect the rights and interests of a certain person. (Statement 4/2007 on the concept of personal data, issued on June 20, 2007 (01248/07/EN WP 136), pp. 10–11.)
It is clear that when evaluating the maintenance history and/or repair data of previous owners or holders of the vehicle, the question is not about the information that tells about the new owner or holder of the vehicle. The information tells about the time before the vehicle's new owner or holder's time as owner or holder. Furthermore, it can be stated that the maintenance history and/or repair information of the previous owners or holders of the vehicle is not used or is likely to be used for the purpose of evaluating or treating the new owner or holder of the vehicle in a certain way. The purpose is not too much to influence his position or behavior. Even if there is no content or purpose factor, the information can be considered to "concern" a certain person on the basis that, taking into account all the factors related to the matter in question, using the information is likely to affect the rights and interests of that person. According to the mentioned instruction, the possible effect does not have to be large. It is enough that the person in question may be treated differently than others because this information has been processed. An example is the monitoring of the location of taxis carried out to improve the service and its effect on the drivers. Although the location information referred to in the example concerns vehicles and not their drivers, the system makes it possible to monitor the work of taxi drivers. Such information could have a significant impact on taxi drivers, which is why the information can be considered to apply to these taxi drivers as well.
In the matter now in question, it is still necessary to ask whether the service history and repair information can be considered personal data of the new owner of the vehicle purchased used. The matter can still be evaluated in light of the result factor described above. In this evaluation, a position must be taken on whether this information is likely to affect the rights and interests of the new owner of the used vehicle as described above. The effect of the vehicle's maintenance history and repair data from previous owners on the vehicle's new owner is limited to the current valuation of the vehicle.
It should be noted that the determination of vehicle values is not regulated by law. The Tax Administration has described the typical value determination of a vehicle on its website. According to these guidelines, vehicle values are determined using a multi-explainer regression model for each make and model series. The values determined with the help of a statistical model are based on the evaluation of the effects of different properties. The variable to be explained is the car's price and the car's model, age, driving performance (km), power (kw), gearbox (manual/automatic), driving force (gasoline/diesel) and model generation, if the model generation information is available, are the explanatory variables. The values according to the different driving performances of the car models are calculated from the evaluated parameters. The impact coefficients estimated for age, driving performance and car characteristics vary by car model. It should be noted that the Tax Administration's valuation does not take into account maintenance or repairs made to the vehicle as parameters per se. The importance of maintenance and repairs to the value of the vehicle could be considered marginal. Service history information is probably more important in terms of the vehicle's value in use. Properly performed maintenance and repairs can be assumed to extend the vehicle's service life. It should be noted that, due to its content, purpose and/or effects, the vehicle's maintenance history information does not relate to the new owner or holder of a vehicle purchased used in a way that would correspond to, for example, the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union C-434/16 (Peter Nowak vs. Data Protection Commissioner (issued on 20.12.2017 , C-343/16).
Based on the reasons presented above, the data protection commissioner considers that the vehicle's maintenance history and repair data are not the personal data referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation of the new owner of a vehicle purchased used.
Since the service history and repair information is not the personal data of the new owner (or holder) of the vehicle purchased used, as referred to in Article 4, Paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, the applicant does not have the right to access this information pursuant to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Finally
The Data Protection Commissioner emphasizes that in this decision only a position has been taken on whether the vehicle's maintenance history and repair information is the kind of personal data referred to in Article 4, Paragraph 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation, which the new owner (or holder) of a vehicle purchased second-hand has the right to access expressly pursuant to Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation pursuant to Art.
The Data Protection Commissioner emphasizes that this decision has not separately assessed whether Oy BMW Suomi Ab could hand over the information in question to the applicant. The Data Protection Commissioner notes that this could be possible, for example, on the basis of Article 6(1)(f) of the General Data Protection Regulation.
Applicable legal provisions
Those mentioned in the justifications.
Appeal
According to Section 25 of the Data Protection Act (1050/2018), this decision can be appealed by appealing to the administrative court in accordance with the provisions of the law on legal proceedings in administrative matters (808/2019). The appeal is made to the administrative court.
Service
The decision is notified in accordance with § 60 of the Administrative Act (434/2003) by mail against receipt.
More information about this decision will be provided by the rapporteur
Laura Varjokari, tel. 029 566 6771.

The decision is legally binding.




