

Bonn/Berlin, October 25, 2019


Press release 25/2019


  For the 41st International Data Protection Conference
In Tirana, representatives of around 120 independent data protection authorities from more than 80 countries discussed under the motto "Convergence and Connectivity". Among other things, the 41st International Data Protection Conference (IDSK) set up a "Policy Strategy Working Group" to develop common global data protection standards and determine the relationship between data protection and other fundamental rights.

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Ulrich Kelber, emphasized the importance of even more globally networked data protection: Digitization ensures that data is now connected and accessible worldwide. Therefore, cross-border data protection must also represent a guarantee for the protection of essential fundamental rights. In Europe, we have already taken a first step in this direction with the GDPR. With the establishment of the "Policy Strategy Working Group" of the IDSK, we are now consistently pursuing this path. My authority and I will therefore be happy to take part in this working group.
In the strategic orientation for the years 2019-2021, further focal points of the conference are to be set on the subject of artificial intelligence and the special data protection requirements for the protection of minors. In addition, the conference is striving for a more stable structure in the future in order to facilitate constant cooperation among its members in addition to the annual meeting. This is one of the reasons why it was decided to rename the IDSK to “Global Privacy Assembly”.
The conference also passed various resolutions, including a "Resolution on the importance of data protection as a fundamental right and as a prerequisite for the exercise of other fundamental rights". It appeals to governments around the world to recognize data protection as a fundamental right and to anchor it in their national legislation. In addition, companies are asked to demonstrably assume responsibility for data protection and the protection of other fundamental rights.
The next Global Privacy Assembly conference will be held in Mexico in October 2020.





contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











