Frederiksberg Municipality is recommended for a fine
Date: 16-12-2021
Decision
Public authorities
Police report
Reported breach of personal data security
Treatment safety
Children
Unauthorized access
The Danish Data Protection Authority has reported Frederiksberg Municipality to the police, as the Danish Data Protection Authority assesses that the municipality has not met the requirements for an appropriate level of security in the data protection regulation.





Frederiksberg Municipality has been fined DKK 100,000 for not having established sufficient security measures in one of the municipality's self-service solutions.
On 1 March 2021, Frederiksberg Municipality reported a breach of personal data security to the Norwegian Data Protection Authority. It emerged from the case that the municipal dental care had a self-service solution where resident parents originally had access to, among other things, dental care letters. The municipality subsequently expanded access to the system to also include visitation parents with joint custody.
This meant that in several cases parents gained access to information about the residential parent and the child's address, even though the residential parent and the child were registered with name and address protection.
Requirements for adequate security
"When expanding access to a system for custodial parents where personal data may be particularly protected, for example due to name and address protection, it must be clear what information the custodial parents have access to. It must also be taken into account that the access may expose the resident parent and the child to a potentially high risk. Frederiksberg Municipality should thus have safeguarded against access being given to information that should not be given access to," explains specialist consultant in the Norwegian Data Protection Authority Liv Palmelund Osborg.
Why report to the police?
The Danish Data Protection Authority always makes a concrete assessment of the seriousness of the case pursuant to Article 83, paragraph 1 of the Data Protection Regulation. 2, when assessing which sanction is the correct one in the opinion of the supervisory authority.
Based on the circumstances of the case, the Danish Data Protection Authority has decided to report Frederiksberg Municipality to the police and recommends that a claim be made that the municipality be fined DKK 100,000.
In its proposal for the size of the fine, the Danish Data Protection Authority has, among other things, emphasized the nature and seriousness of the infringement, and the regulation's requirement that a fine in each individual case must be effective, proportionate to the infringement and have a deterrent effect. The Danish Data Protection Authority has emphasized that access to the addresses could have serious consequences for those registered, who precisely had address protection to avoid the other parent becoming aware of the address. When calculating the fine, emphasis is also placed on the size of the municipality in relation to the number of inhabitants and the total operating licence.
Do you want to know more?
Read more about how to protect personal data here.
Press inquiries can be directed to communications consultant Anders Due on tel. 29 49 32 83.


