MEP Sophie In 't Veld 
sophie.intveld@ep.europarl.eu 

By e-mail only 

r 1  ope an Data Protect 01 Board 

Brussels, 23 January 2019 

Ref:  SH-423-2018 

Subject: Letter from 12 November 2018 on Romanian DPA Investigation 

Dear Ms in 't Veld, 

I would like to thank you for the letter you sent me on 12 November 2018 on the order issued on 9 
November by the Romanian data protection authority to investigative journalists of the RISE project, 
to disclose their sources on the basis of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 

As foreseen in article 58 GDPR,  each Supervisory Authority (SA) has the power to request any 
information from a controller or from a processor in the context of a given processing operation that is 
necessary for the performance of its tasks. The fundamental right to the protection of personal data that 
such power aims to protect,  however,  has to be balanced against the protection of other equally 
important fundamental rights (such as the right to freedom of expression and information). It goes 
without saying that the protection of journalistic sources is a cornerstone of the freedom of the press. 

Furthermore, such powers must take into consideration the requirements foreseen in article 85 GDPR, 
which mandate a legal reconciliation of both fundamental rights, including in cases where processing 
for journalistic purposes is involved. Even though article 85 leaves such task to Member States, it is 
clear that such reconciliation must always be done in respect of chapter VII GPDR and of the applicable 
jurisprudence of the CJEU and the ECtHR. 

Moreover, it is also essential to add that such powers should be exercised in a proportionate manner and 
based on an individual assessment of each case. The same reasoning is applicable to any fines issued 
by an SA under the GDPR:  they need to be imposed casuistically and be, not only effective and 
dissuasive, but also proportionate to the demonstrated infringement. 

I would like to underline that the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) does not have the same 
competences,  tasks  and powers  as  national  supervisory authorities.  The assessment of alleged 
infringements of the GDPR in first instance falls within the competence of the responsible and 
independent Supervisory Authorities of each Member State, either by themselves or in cooperation with 
other SAs. A judicial remedy will always be available in accordance with article 78(1) GDPR. 

Y ours sincere! 

Andrea Jelinek 
Chair of the European Data Protection Board 

rue vviertz, 60 
I 04 7 Brussels 

