Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of June 23, 2022
 
 06/22/2022
 
 
 
 
 privacy
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
Data protection conference publishes FAQ on Facebook fan pages At its second interim conference in 2022 on June 22, the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments (DSK) adopted a list of frequently asked data protection questions and the associated answers (FAQ) on Facebook fan pages DSK answers, among other things, why the operation of Facebook fan pages is problematic under data protection law and why those responsible cannot guarantee the data protection-compliant operation of a Facebook fan page in the current situation. In the FAQ, the DSK also points out that similar problems also exist for other social networks and platforms. So far, however, there have only been judgments on Facebook fan pages. The DSK emphasizes that the supervisory authorities are not concerned with a general ban on Facebook fan pages, but with legally compliant operation. However, this cannot be guaranteed without changes in data processing by Facebook and its parent company Meta. The DSK presented the precise legal problems involved in operating a Facebook fan page in a short report (https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/weitere_dokumente/DSK_Kurzgutachten_Facebook-Fanpages_V1_18.03.2022.pdf). With the answers, the DSK reacts to the great interest from civil society and the media. At the same time, supervised bodies should be informed quickly and comprehensibly about the common legal opinion of the data protection supervisory authorities. The FAQ will be published shortly on the DSK homepage. Further information on the data protection conference: www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de Contact: The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Graurheindorfer Straße 153 53117 Bonn E-Mail: pressestelle(at)bfdi.bund. en
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 Press release of the conference of the independent data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state governments of June 23, 2022
 
 401KB
 