
05.02.2019 | 02/2019
Safer Internet Day 2019: “On the internet? Certainly!”





On the occasion of Safer Internet Day 2019, on February 5, 2019 in Brandenburg, the Ministry of Justice and for Europe and Consumer Protection, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and the Right to Access Files and the Brandenburg Consumer Advice Center met together on the topic "On the internet? With security!" on road.
Minister Ludwig said the following about the joint flyer campaign “Secure your smartphone” at Potsdam Central Station:
“Current cases of data theft and data misuse (Facebook scandal, data trading and publication via Twitter) show that every user has to question their own behavior on the internet. Unfortunately, consumers cannot rely 100% on companies protecting their data. This has to change. Companies that misuse data must be sanctioned.”

The state data protection officer, Ms. Hartge, pointed out the practical implementation:
"Data protection and data security go hand in hand on the Internet. This applies to both conventional computers and smartphones, which have become indispensable in our everyday lives. It is therefore worth taking basic measures to protect these devices in order to prevent your own data falls into the wrong hands. Tips for securing smartphones are therefore the focus of our joint campaign."

dr Christian A. Rumpke, Managing Director of the Brandenburg Consumer Advice Center added:
"We see again and again that apps require significantly more authorizations than is necessary for their operation. Does a QR code reader really need access to all the contacts stored in the cell phone? We mean "no" and demand data-saving products and services from companies in the Senses of the users. By making conscious decisions against data octopus apps, consumers can help good offers to prevail."

In a representative forsa survey in 2016, Brandenburg citizens stated that they had the most consumer protection problems when using the internet. Accordingly, consumers expect politicians to do more in the area of data protection. For most consumers (92% according to the forsa survey 2016) it is important to have control over who receives which data from them when purchasing goods and services. Many do not want their data to be used for advertising and offers. Since this often looks very different in practice and consumers themselves do not always pay attention to their protection, strengthening digital consumer skills is an important approach in the area of data protection and data security (in addition to strengthening and implementing data protection law).
There is a lot that consumers can do themselves to ensure that consumers can act on an equal footing with other market participants and retain control of their data. The development of consumer skills helps them to move confidently and oriented in the markets. Competent consumers can act more consciously and independently and also protect themselves.
Background:
Safer Internet Day 2019 is an annual global day of action for more safety on the Internet, initiated by the European Union. This year it is taking place under the motto "Safer Internet Day 2019 - Together for a better internet". Here, different actors are committed to online security and a better Internet for children and young people. Globally, this day is coordinated by the European Insafe network as part of the European Commission's CEF Telecom programme. In Germany, klicksafe.de coordinates the day of action and encourages people to get involved with their own actions.

Sven Müller - spokesman
Lisa Högden - Press Officer
dr Uwe Krink - press spokesman




ID number 02/2019
Date05.02.2019
Responsible: Sven Müller, Poststelle@LDA.Brandenburg.de







ID number 02/2019
Date05.02.2019
Responsible: Sven Müller, Poststelle@LDA.Brandenburg.de



