1/8

Litigation Chamber

 

Decision on the merits 63/2020 of

September 22, 2020

 

 

 

File number: DOS-2019-05675

 

Subject: Complaint by X against Google (removal of links/right to be forgotten)

 

 

The Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority, made up of Mr Hielke

Hijmans, chairman, and Messrs. Christophe Boeraeve and Jelle Stassijns, members;

 

Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the

protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and the

free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Regulation on the

data protection, hereinafter "GDPR");

 

Having regard to the law of 3 December 2017 creating the Data Protection Authority, hereinafter the LCA

;

 

Having regard to the internal regulations as approved by the House of Representatives on

December 20, 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Gazette on January 15, 2019;

 

Considering the documents in the file;

 

 

 

 

.
 .

.
.

.
.

Decision on the merits 63/2020 - 2/8

made the following decision regarding:

-

-

the complainant: X

the defendant

: Google Belgium SA, Chaussée d'Etterbeek 180, 1040 Brussels

;

 

 

 

1. Facts and procedure

 

1. On October 28, 2019, the complainant lodged a complaint with the Data Protection Authority

given against the defendant.

The subject of the complaint concerns the refusal of the request to delete the URLs appearing on

"Google.be" and "Google.com" in the results after a search on the name of the

complainant.

 

2. On November 14, 2019, the complaint is declared admissible on the basis of articles 58 and 60 of the LCA

and is sent to the Litigation Division under Article 62, § 1 of the LCA.

 

3. On March 13, 2020, the Litigation Division decides, pursuant to Article 95, § 1, 1° and Article

98 of the ACL, that the case can be dealt with on the merits.

 

4. On the same date, the parties concerned are informed by registered letter of the provisions

as set out in article 95, § 2 as well as in article 98 of the LCA. They are also informed

under Article 99 of the LCA, deadlines for transmitting their conclusions. The deadline for

the receipt of the respondent's submissions in response was set for April 24, 2020, that for the

submissions in reply of the complainant on May 8, 2020 and that for the submissions in reply of the

defendant as of May 22, 2020.

 

5. On March 25, 2020, the defendant informs the Litigation Chamber that he wishes to receive a copy

Exhibit 2 of the file (art. 95, § 2, 3° of the LCA), which was sent to him on March 26, 2020. The

Respondent also indicates that it wishes all communications in this case to be

electronically, that he will submit submissions within the time limits set by the Chamber

Litigation and that he also wishes to be heard.

 

6. On April 2, 2020, the complainant also informed the Litigation Chamber that he preferred the

communication by electronic means and that he also wishes to be heard.

 

Decision on the merits 63/2020 - 3/8

7. On May 5, 2020, the Litigation Chamber was notified by the plaintiff of his wish to waive

to its complaint against the defendant, since the URLs which were the subject of the complaint were no longer

available through Google Search. According to the complainant, the complaint therefore became moot,

so that there is no basis for continuing the procedure.

 

8. On May 12, 2020, Respondent confirms that it has removed from Google Search the URLs that were

the subject of the complaint, that he accepted the withdrawal of the complaint by the defendant and that, in view of this withdrawal, he

there is no longer any basis for pursuing the procedure.

 

9. The Litigation Chamber receives neither from the plaintiff nor from the defendant any conclusions

containing means of defense within the time limits set by the Litigation Chamber.

 

10. On August 3, 2020, the Litigation Chamber sent a letter to the parties in order to find out what

the reasons underlying the decision to proceed with the removal of the URLs in question, while the

respondent had initially refused to accede to the request to that effect by the complainant.

 

11. On September 4, 2020, the defendant informed the Litigation Chamber of the reason for the deletion

URLs, namely the reconsideration of all the elements of this case by the removal team of the

respondent. It is further stated that all parties to the case, including the Complainant,

do not wish to proceed further.

 

12. On September 4, 2020, the complainant also addressed the Litigation Chamber in his

communicating that the defendant has complied with its request for erasure and that it does not wish

pursue this case.

 

 

 

2. Legal basis

Article 12.4 GDPR

 

4. If the data controller does not comply with the request made by the person

concerned, he informs the latter without delay and at the latest within 1 month from the

receipt of the request for the reasons for its inaction and the possibility of lodging a complaint with

of a supervisory authority and to lodge a judicial appeal.

GDPR Article 17

 

Decision on the merits 63/2020 - 4/8

1. The data subject has the right to obtain from the controller the erasure, within the

as soon as possible, of personal data concerning him and the controller has

the obligation to erase this personal data as soon as possible, when one of the

following reasons apply:

a) the personal data are no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for which

it has been collected or otherwise processed;

b) the data subject withdraws the consent on which the processing is based, in accordance with

Article 6(1)(a) or Article 9(2)(a) and there is no other

legal basis for processing;

c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to Article 21(1) and there is no

no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the data subject objects to the processing

pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 2;

d) the personal data has been unlawfully processed;

e) the personal data must be erased to comply with a legal obligation which

is provided for by Union law or by the law of the Member State to which the controller

is submitted;

f) the personal data was collected in the context of the company's service offer

information referred to in Article 8(1).

2. When he has made the personal data public and is required to delete them in

pursuant to paragraph 1, the controller, taking into account the available technologies and the

implementation costs, takes reasonable measures, including technical ones, to inform

the data controllers who process this personal data that the person

concerned has requested the erasure by these data controllers of any link to this data

of a personal nature, or any copy or reproduction thereof.

3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 do not apply insofar as this processing is necessary:

(a) the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information;

b) to comply with a legal obligation which requires the processing provided for by Union law or by

the law of the Member State to which the controller is subject, or to perform a task

in the public interest or falling within the exercise of official authority vested in the person responsible for the

processing;

c) for reasons of public interest in the field of public health, in accordance with Article 9,

paragraph 2, points (h) and (i), as well as Article 9(3);

(d) for archival purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research purposes or

for statistical purposes in accordance with Article 89(1), insofar as the right referred to in

paragraph 1 is likely to render impossible or seriously jeopardize the achievement of the

purposes of said processing; Where

e) the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims.

 

Decision on the merits 63/2020 - 5/8

3. Motivation

 

13. The Litigation Chamber took note of the complaint in which the plaintiff asserted that

the defendant refused to accede to the request to delete the URLs which appeared in the

search results on "Google.be" and "Google.com" after a search on the name of the

complainant and which referred to an alleged conviction of the complainant in another country for

money laundering and embezzlement of company funds, when there would have been no

conviction for such offences. Following the complainant's initial request to remove the URLs in

question, the Respondent requested additional information regarding the case in order to

to be able to assess the request. The defendant then decided not to pursue the request

removal of URLs.

 

14. During the procedure before the Litigation Chamber, the parties consult each other,

without involving the Litigation Chamber, and then inform it that an agreement has been reached, due to the fact

that the URLs that were the subject of the complaint are no longer available through Google Search.

 

15. Although the complainant asserts that his complaint has become moot, the Litigation Chamber

decides to pursue the examination of the complaint.

 

16. In general, the Litigation Chamber draws attention to the following.

First of all, once seized, the Litigation Chamber is empowered to examine compliance with the GDPR

and to ensure its effective application in complete independence, despite the fact that the complaint has been

withdrawn by the complainant or has become irrelevant.

 

17. As explained in its decision 17/2020, the Litigation Chamber is an organ of the DPA, created

under Article 4(1) of the ACL, enjoying a certain autonomy within the DPA and taking

its decisions independently. The APD is the Belgian authority responsible for monitoring the

compliance with the GDPR within the meaning of Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union,

of Article 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 51 of the GDPR.

This control by the DPA and its Litigation Chamber is an essential element for the protection of

individuals when processing personal data, as more specifically organized

by the GDPR.

 

18. According to Articles 51.1, 51.2 and 52.1 of the GDPR, Member States must indeed charge

one or more independent authorities to monitor the application of the GDPR in order to protect the

fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing and to facilitate the

free flow of personal data within the Union. These supervisory authorities must

Decision on the merits 63/2020 - 6/8

exercise their powers with a view to the effective application of European law in the field of

data protection, including GDPR. Ensuring the usefulness of the effect of European law is one

of the main tasks of Member State authorities under European Union law.1

 

19. They must allow the exercise of fundamental data protection rights

of a personal nature. To this end, supervisors should play an active role through

the tasks and powers conferred on them by Articles 57 and 58 of the GDPR. In application

of Article 57.2 of the GDPR, each supervisory authority must "facilitate" the lodging of complaints

by a data subject or by an organization. It is therefore logical that the examination of these

complaints must make it possible to exercise rights and contribute to improving the control of their

own personal data by citizens.

 

20. This is developed in national legislation in the ACL. In this regard, the Market Court has

underlined that under Belgian law, the DPA (and a fortiori the Litigation Chamber) must be considered as

an administrative authority and not as a judicial body.

 

21. In summary, the review by the Litigation Chamber is not primarily intended to settle disputes

between parties, but it is one of the instruments available to ODA to ensure compliance with

data protection rules, in accordance with the provisions of the European treaties,

GDPR and LCA.

 

22. If a complaint is lodged and is then transmitted for examination to the Litigation Chamber in

As long as the complaint is admissible, the Litigation Chamber must assess whether the facts related constitute a

infringement of one of the legal provisions compliance with which is subject to control by the APD 2. This

monitoring also extends to the assessment of infringements which have (presumably) ceased

time of examination by the Litigation Chamber.

 

23. In relation to the present case, this means that:

Although the parties reached an agreement following which the complaint would have become

object, the Litigation Division nevertheless remains authorized to examine the legality of the grounds for

refusal, as they stood at the time of the facts, on the part of the defendant, in order to give

following the complainant's exercise of his right to erasure.

 

                                                

1 See Koen Lenaerts, Piet Van Nuffel, Europees recht (6th edition), Intersentia, 2017, pp. 95-100, and more precisely about
data protection authorities, Hielke Hijmans, The European Union as Guardian of Internet Privacy, Springer 2016,
Chapter 7.

2 See also in this regard: Decision 17/2020 of the Litigation Chamber, point 27.

Decision on the merits 63/2020 - 7/8

24. The simple observation that during the proceedings before the Litigation Division, the defendant

nevertheless followed up on the complainant's request is not such as to lift any violation that

could have been committed previously by the defendant on the one hand and is not such as to deprive

the competent bodies of the Data Protection Authority, including the Litigation Chamber,

of the exercise of their respective competences on the other hand.

 

25. Otherwise, it would be sufficient for data controllers not to respond to requests

exercise of the rights of the persons concerned only at the stage of the procedure to be thus

exempted for any prior violation, as set forth in the complaint. The effective control that

any supervisory authority, such as the Data Protection Authority and in particular the

Litigation Chamber, as explained above, must unquestionably oppose it.

 

26. In this case, the Litigation Division did not receive from the parties either submissions or annexes

related information in order to allow it to examine the facts giving rise to the complaint, taking into account the

legal and administrative provisions as well as case law and doctrine. Bedroom

Contentious did not request an investigation from the Inspection Department either, in accordance with Article

94, 1° of the LCA, within the 30-day period provided for this purpose (article 96, § 1 of the LCA).

 

27. In the absence of factual elements in this particular file, it is impossible for the Chamber

Litigation to exercise effectively the task of control assigned to it. She is of course

authorized to examine possible infringements occurring in other cases which would be

submitted for consideration and in which the parties would reach an agreement. She reserves

also the right to examine, if necessary, the content of such an agreement and also to verify by

example if a complainant is put under pressure to waive the right to complain, guaranteed

to Article 77 of the GDPR.

 

28. On the basis of the elements of the file, the Litigation Chamber can only arrive at the

finding that the Respondent nevertheless complied with the Complainant's request to proceed with

the erasure of the URLs that are the subject of the complaint and concerning data relating to the complainant.

Although there may have been a violation at the time of the complainant's initial application to the

respondent to proceed with the erasure and the respondent's subsequent refusal to do so and

to thus delete the URLs concerned, the Litigation Chamber cannot establish whether this refusal was

justified or not to then determine if it was a question of an infringement of the GDPR.

 

29. The Litigation Chamber therefore decides to close the present complaint without further action, for lack of elements

factual.

 

Decision on the merits 63/2020 - 8/8

30. Given the importance of transparency regarding the decision-making process of the Chamber

Litigation, this decision is published on the website of the Authority for the protection of

data. However, it is not necessary for this purpose that the identification data of the complainant

are communicated directly. Given the importance of the Google search engine for a

very large number of Internet users and the fact that in one way or another, links are taken

in the Google search engine to a considerable proportion of people residing in

Belgium, the name of the defendant is on the other hand communicated.

 

 

 

FOR THESE REASONS,

 

the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority decides, after deliberation, pursuant to

of article 100, § 1, 1° of the LCA, to close the present complaint without further action. On the basis of

information currently available to the Litigation Chamber, it considers to date that there is no

therefore not possible to follow up on the complaint.

 

Under article 108, § 1 of the LCA, this decision may be appealed within a period of

thirty days, from the notification, to the Court of Markets, with the Authority for the Protection of

given as defendant.

 

 

 

(Sr.) Hielke Hijmans

President of the Litigation Chamber

