1/37

 File No.: PS/00379/2021

RESOLUTION OF TERMINATION OF THE PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENT

VOLUNTEER

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On December 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against B.B.B. (hereinafter the
claimed party). Notified of the initial agreement and after analyzing the allegations
presented, on July 22, 2022, the resolution proposal was issued that
is transcribed below:

<<

File No.: PS/00379/2021

PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and with
based on the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: A.A.A. (hereinafter, the complaining party), filed on January 5,
2021 a claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) to
through the Municipal Consumer Information Office (OMIC) of the City Council
of Madrid in which he identified B.B.B. as the alleged perpetrator of the events, with
NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party), owner of the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1.

It should be noted that, months before, on October 16, 2019, the complaining party
filed a claim for the same facts in which he identified as alleged
responsible and owner of the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1 to the mercantile UNITED ANIF,
S.L., with NIF B87319364 (hereinafter, the erroneous claim), against whom the AEPD
agreed to open a sanctioning procedure: PS/00462/2020.

Thus, the letter dated January 5, 2021 in which the claimant rectifies the
identity of the alleged perpetrator who had initially communicated to the AEDP da

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/37

place to the opening of the sanctioning file that concerns us and, since the
allegedly responsible for procedure PS/00462/2020 did not intervene in the conduct
object of the claim, determined that the file of the procedure be agreed
directed in front of him.

The claim made is based on the unlawful processing of the personal data of
the claimant made by the respondent, owner of the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1, which
linked them to two money transfers to which the claimant was not involved and which
were managed from said establishment. The shipment was made through
Money Gram International S.R.L., company of which the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1
He was a licensed agent.

The complaining party states that on September 2, 2019, at 7:04 p.m. and 7:52 p.m.
hours, respectively, received at his email address, ***EMAIL.1, both
messages from Moneygram Payment Systems, Inc. informing you of two shipments of
money allegedly made by her on that date through Money Gram. The
message content was as follows:

In the first, with number ***MENSAJE.1, C.C.C. appeared as the recipient; a
amount to send of XXX.X €; the date on which the money was collected “(...)” and the
amount to receive “(...)”.

In the second, with number ***MESSAGE.2, D.D.D. appeared as the recipient; the
amount of the shipment was €XXX.X; the date the money was collected by the
recipient “(...)” and the amount to receive “(...)”.

The claimant states that, a few days earlier, on August 30, 2019, she sent a
remittance of money to a family member from the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1 and that the same
day, at 8:18 p.m., he received an email from Moneygram at his email address
Payment Systems, Inc. confirming the shipment made and receipt of the remittance
by the recipient. He explains that the email he received stated -as in those
described above, received on September 2 - this information: A number of
Shipment ID, XXXXXXXX; the name of the person receiving the shipment,
E.E.E.; the amount sent, XXX.X€; the date on which the money was collected “(...)” and the
amount to receive “(...)”.

Indicates that, in accordance with the filing, processing and resolution procedure
of complaints and claims of Money Gram, unsuccessfully required this entity to cancel and
cancel the money transfer operations carried out fraudulently on the 2nd of
September 2019. In this regard, he claims to have made claims through
telephone -incidence numbers ***INCIDENCIA.1 and ***INCIDENCIA.2- and through
a web form at the address ***EMAIL.2 to which the number of
incidence ***EMAIL.3.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/37

Express your disagreement with the answer offered by the customer service
Money Gram client -***EMAIL.4- that qualifies the facts as “an error
administrative when the agent entered my email in the wrong way”. Declares that
Money Gram replied that “statements sent from an office cannot be
visualize”, therefore, in consideration of the response received, it concludes that the
responsible for linking your personal data to those two money remittances to which
she is an outsider could only have been the owner of the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1, who
would have used for this purpose his data that she had provided him a few days before with the
purpose of managing a money transfer.

The claimant did not provide the AEPD with her two claim documents -dated 16
October 2019 and January 5, 2021 - no document corroborating their
demonstrations, although it did offer information on the facts that was extraordinarily
detailed. On October 16, 2019, the OMIC of the Madrid City Council
sent to the AEPD "the copy for the Administration" of the official form,
duly completed by the claimant, called "Claim Sheet" in
consumer matter. The claimant's signature appeared on that form and on the
space destined to “Signature and stamp of the claimed” the stamp of the
“UNITED ANIF, S.L.” In the aforementioned form, the claimant states that she “does not
sent the remittances on 9/2/2019.” Together with the completed form, it was provided to the
AEPD on that date a single document that is also signed by the claimant.
The document in question has the structure of a complaint addressed to the Court for
the alleged commission of several crimes for which the defendant is held responsible
erroneous -UNITED ANIF, S.L.- and MoneyGram International, SRL. Through him it
explain in detail the events that occurred and repeatedly allude to the fact that the
claimant has at his disposal and provides the Court with supporting documents of the
facts that are the subject of the claim.

On January 5, 2021, a letter is received from the OMIC of the Madrid City Council in
the one that communicates to this AEPD that the claimant "requests" them -we must understand them
"facilitates" - through mail dated December 10, 2020 the data of the
establishment, as there has been a change of ownership, in order to remedy
the claim filed with the AEPD. The letter adds that “From this OMIC
We inform that body that at the time of the events, the ownership of the
establishment was: Name/Business name: B.B.B.. Identification document: ***NIF.1.
Address of the establishment: C/ ***DIRIMIENTO.1, Madrid C.P..”

On that date, the OMIC also sends to the AEPD, as attached documents, the copy
of a thread of emails exchanged with the claimant and the letter that
AEPD had notified the claimant informing her of the admission for processing
of the claim he filed on October 16, 2019 in which he identified as
presumed responsible for the facts to the erroneous claimed.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/37

SECOND: The facts on which the claim presented by the
claimed on January 5, 2021 are the same as those on which the claim was made
formulated on October 16, 2019, which, as has been anticipated, gave rise to the
opening of procedure PS/00462/2020 against the erroneous claim and which ended
with a file resolution for non-existence of responsibility.

It should be noted, regarding these facts, that the AEPD, as a result of the claim of 16
of October 2019, assessed, in accordance with article 65, sections 1 and 2, of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), the admissibility for processing of that
claim and agreed to admit it for processing on December 4, 2020. In addition,
the agreement for admission to processing was notified to the complaining party in accordance with
the provisions of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter, LPACAP).

Likewise, in accordance with article 65.4 of the LOPDGDD, the AEPD notified
of the claim to the erroneous claimant and to MONEY GRAM SPAIN, S.A., with NIF
A80821523, so that they proceeded to their analysis and inform this Agency in the
period of one month of the actions carried out to adapt to the requirements
provided for in the data protection regulations.

This last entity responded to the information request on July 27, 2020 and
stated that he had no relationship with the claimant and with the entities then
claimed -the erroneous claimed and MONEYGRAM INTERNATIONAL SRL- so
could not provide any factual information. She added that she is "not a
payment institution registered with the Bank of Spain in accordance with R.D. 736/2019, of 20
December, on the legal regime of payment services and payment entities;
Therefore, it is not authorized to carry out any money transfer operation to which
the claimant refers to in her complaint and be the subject of her
claim. Said shipping operations appear to have been carried out by the
two indicated companies.”

THIRD: On December 9, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
in accordance with the provisions of articles 63 and 64 of the LPACAP, for the alleged
infringement of article 6.1. of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD.

FOURTH: The initiation agreement was electronically notified to the respondent party in
date December 10, 2021, producing on that date both the start-up
provision of the notice as your acceptance. This is confirmed by the certificate of the
FNMT that works in the file.

The respondent did not make any arguments against the agreement to initiate the procedure
sanctioner at hand.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/37

FIFTH: On June 21, 2022, the instructor of the procedure agreed to the
opening of a test phase and the practice of the following procedures:

1. Consider reproduced the submitted claim and its attached documentation, as well as
the documents obtained and generated in the information request phase prior to the
admission to processing of the claim.

2. Consider reproduced the documents that make up the sanctioning procedure PS/
462/2020 and the appeal for reconsideration RR/428/2021.

3. On June 21, 2022, the respondent is required to provide the
AEPD the following information and documents:
3.1. Since what date is the owner of the business identified with the commercial name
“CALL SHOP *** CALL SHOP.1”. You must provide documentation proving your
response.
3.2. That it states by virtue of which legal title the aforementioned business operates
(purchase, lease, etc) You must provide the documents that prove your
response.
3.3. To send to the AEPD the tax documentation that accredits the answers to the
questions formulated in sections 1 and 2 above.
3.4. To explain what is the protocol of action implemented to comply with the
obligations imposed by the data protection regulations regarding the data
information that it collects from customers who request to send money through
of MONEY BIG. In particular, it must explain:
a) What procedure is followed for the management of sending a remittance of money ordered by
a natural person in order to accurately identify the sender.
b) If you ask the client to be a natural person who wants to send money through MONEY
GRAM to show you a document that proves that you are the owner of the data you have
provided as their own.
c) If on occasions you have managed money remittances on behalf of a
person who does not come to your establishment in person and who acts through
a third party intervening on your behalf. If so, you must indicate what
documentation requests the person acting on behalf of the owner of the shipment.
3.5. Explain whether the personal data it collects from customers who make a
sending money through MONEY GRAM are incorporated directly into the application
information technology of that company or if previously collected in another document or
support, be it final or a simple draft, either on paper or in any
other.

4. By means of a document received by the claimant on June 29, 2022, she was
requires you to provide the following documentation and information:
4.1. Copy of your DNI, NIE or, failing that, of another document accrediting your
identity.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/37

4.2. Explain whether you filed a complaint with the Police Station or/and
before the Court of Instruction in relation to the facts for which he formulated
claim before this Spanish Data Protection Agency. If so,
You must send a copy of the corresponding complaint, of all the documents that
presented to the Police or the Court and of all the documents that
delivered or received as a result of such complaints.
If a judicial procedure was processed, you must provide the information and
Documentation proving the status of the judicial proceeding
and the jurisdictional body that is hearing the procedure.
4.3. Copy of the two emails that you declared having received at your email address
“***EMAIL.1” on September 2, 2019 from the electronic address
***EMAIL.3. You must also provide the headers of both emails.
4.4. Copies of all documents in your possession relating to the
claims that he made before MONEYGRAM in which he requested “the cancellation of
fraudulent remittances, as well as accessing the profile blocked from accessing the web
moneygram.com”.
4.5. A copy of the response you received from customer service from
MONEYGRAM from the address ***EMAIL.4.
4.6. Copy of the document that proves that on August 30, 2019 you sent a
remittance of money through the Locutorio *** LOCUTORIO.1 with number of
shipping confirmation XXXXXXXX.

5. In writing addressed to Money Gram International, S.R.L., which is recorded as received by that
entity on June 27, 2022, you are required to provide the information and
following documentation:
5.1. The copy of the contract entered into with the Authorized Agent that operates
with the commercial name of “LOCUTORIO *** LOCUTORIO.1”, identification “XXXX”,
domiciled in Madrid, C.P. (Spain) street ***ADDRESS.1. You will need to provide the
copy of the Agency contract that they had signed with the natural or legal person
owner of the business "LOCUTORIO ***LOCUTORIO.1" and, if applicable, that of the agreements
of subrogation in which the identity data of the successive holders of
that business. In any case, you must identify who was the owner of the business
“LOCUTORIO ***LOCUTORIO.1” that operated as an Authorized Agent of MONEY
GRAM on September 2, 2019.
5.2. Regarding remittances with the references ***MENSAJE.1 and
***MESSAGE.2 executed on September 2, 2019 through your Agent
Authorized "LOCUTORIO *** LOCUTORIO.1", must provide the impressions of
screen of their computer systems that contain the identity data of the
person who is registered as the sender of both shipments. You must provide the
least, the following data of the senders: name and surnames, the document
of identity - class and number- and the e-mail address.
5.3. That explains the iter that the personal data that is collected for
manage money transfers since an Authorized Agent picks them up from the client

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/37

until MONEY GRAM delivers the money remittance to the recipient through another
Agent. In particular, you must report:
- What flow follows the personal data that an Authorized Agent collects and enters
in the MONEY GRAM app.
- Once the data has left the Authorized Agent that has collected and
incorporated into the application, can MONEY GRAM in any way modify or
rewrite the customer data that the Authorized Agent initially included in the
company's computer application?
- Is it necessary for MONEY GRAM to perform a data dump from the screen?
used by the Authorized Agent to another system or application so that the operation of
shipping run successfully?
- From a technical point of view, once the Agent has completed the
form with the client's data, MONEY GRAM can access that data and
modify them?
5.4. What security measures does MONEY GRAM require from its Authorized Agents in order to
to guarantee compliance with the RGPD and, in particular, with the principles of legality of the
treatment and accuracy of data
5.5. What controls does MONEY GRAM have in place to verify that Agents
Authorized comply with the security measures adopted in accordance with the
GDPR.
5.6. You must submit the documentation in your possession related to the
following claims made on September 2, 2019 before the service of
MONEY GRAM customer service: i) By telephone with the numbers of
incidence ***INCIDENCE.1 and ***INCIDENCE.2. ii) Through the web form
***EMAIL.2, incident number ***EMAIL.3.
5.7. What is the legal basis for the treatment that MONEY GRAM made
on September 2, 2019 of the data related to the electronic address
***EMAIL.1 to which two emails related to remittances were sent
identified with the references ***MESSAGE.1 and ***MESSAGE.2.

6. Through diligence dated July 18, 2021, the following are incorporated into the procedure:
proof purposes the following documents:
Yo. Identified as “doc4pdf”, a screenshot obtained from ***URL.1
ii. Identified as “capture5pdf”, a screenshot obtained from ***URL.2
from which you can select the language to access the "Privacy Notices
of MoneyGram.”
iii. The document identified as “Updated-MoneyGram-Global-Consumer” that
includes the "Global Privacy Notice", updated on April 1, 2022, to which
access from the address indicated in point 2 (by mistake, the diligence refers to the
point 3)
IV. The document identified with the name “Updated-Controller-for-Privacy-Notice”,
that includes the "List of data controllers- Addendum to the notice of
privacy for global consumers of Money Gram”, which is accessed from the
electronic address indicated in point 2 (by mistake, the diligence refers to point 3).
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/37

Result of the tests carried out in the course of the procedure:

1. Before the claimed party:
  They are received at the AEPD on June 29, 2022, sent by the party
requested, the following documents:

1.1. AEAT model 037 -Simplified Census Declaration of registration, modification
and low in the Census of companies, professionals and retainers - completed by the
claimed party. The date of census registration and start of activity is recorded as July 11
of 2019.

1.2. The lease contract for business premises located on the street
*** ADDRESS.1 signed on July 1, 2019 of which the part is the tenant
claimed.

1.3. The file with the name "justificante_envios_moneygram.pdf", which includes three
documents that correspond to the forms, duly completed,
regarding the money transfer that the claimant made on August 30, 2019 and the two
shipments dated September 2 to which she is unrelated and to which her
personal information.
a) General characteristics of the forms:
. The documents have in their header, on the right, the anagram of Money
Gram and, to the left, the indications “Envío/ Send”, “Agent: LOCUTORIO
***LOCUTORIO.1-#L7934” and the respective number of “Delivery note:”
. After a first paragraph dedicated to the "Notice of fraud", the body of the document is
structure in these headings: “Shipping settlement document”; “Data from the
person making the shipment” and “Pay to”.
. It is followed by a space without printed letters and then the “General Conditions”.
. On the right side of the document there is a column with this legend: “To fill in
only by the representative. Below is the shipment reference number; the
"Amount to send", specified in euros - dedicating two separate spaces to the "Amount
to send”, “Commission”, “Discount” and “Total”- and the “Amount to receive” -enabling the
respective boxes for “Currency in which you receive:”; “Change applied:” and “Total to
to receive:"-. Next, in this same right column, there is a box for
complete the "Profession of the payer"; the “Date of birth” and the “Telephone”.
Finally, in the same column there are spaces for the "Number of
operator identification”; “Date” and “Signature of Agent”.

b) Completed form regarding the transfer of money made on August 30,
 13.09.51
2019 at “
 
 
 ”. The delivery note number that identifies it is *** DELIVERY DELIVERY.1 and in
the right column contains the reference number XXXXXXXX.
In the section “Shipping settlement data”, Bogotá (Colombia) is indicated as the destination.
and an amount to send of 495.50 euros.
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/37

In the section "Data of the person sending the shipment", the name and two
surnames of the claimant; your address, street *** ADDRESS.2, C.P. of Madrid, the
mobile number ***TELÉFONO.1, nationality, Spanish and ID number
***NIF.1. In the right column, under the heading "Profession of the payer" there is
“HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYEE”, the “Date of birth” “07-15-1979” and the “Telephone”
number ***PHONE.1. The heading "Pay to" includes the name and two
surnames of the recipient -E.E.E..- and a mobile number, ***PHONE.2.
At the end of the right column is the “Operator identification number”:
“Locutorio *** LOCUTORIO.1 -#L7934”.
Beneath there is a signature that reads “XXXXXXXXX”. At a glance that
signature is identical to the signatures of the claimant that appear in the documentation that
work in the file: in the complaint made at the Police Station, in the
"Claim sheet" that he filed with the OMIC and in the document attached to that
form that was sent to the AEPD on October 16, 2019.

c) Form completed regarding the transfer of money made on September 2
of 2019 at “19.52:40”. The delivery note number that identifies it is "XXXXXXXX" and
in the right column the reference number is “***MESSAGE.2”.
In the section "Delivery settlement data", it appears as destination Bogotá (Colombia) and
an amount to send of 394.50 euros.
In the section "Data of the person sending the shipment", all the data
claims of the claimant that appear in the form of your money transfer
made on August 30: your name and two surnames, your address (street, number and
zip code), mobile number, nationality and ID number.
In the right column, under the heading "Profession of the payer", "Date of
birth” and “Telephone”, these three data of the claimant that appear in the
form related to the transfer of money that you made on August 30.
In the “Pay to” section, the addressee is D.D.D. and mobile number
***PHONE.3.
At the end of the right column is the “Operator identification number”:
“Locutorio *** LOCUTORIO.1 -#L7934”.
Below is a signature that reads "A.A.A." This signature is, at a glance,
totally and absolutely different from that of the claimant, with which she does not present any
coincidence. There are several documents in the administrative file with the signature
of the claimant.

d) Form completed regarding the transfer of money made on September 2
 19.04.14”.
  The delivery note number that identifies it is “*** DELIVERY DELIVERY.2”
from 2019 at “
 
 
and in the right column the reference number is “***MESSAGE.1”.
In the section "Delivery settlement data", it appears as destination Bogotá (Colombia) and
an amount to send of 494.50 euros.
In the section "Data of the person sending the shipment", the data
claims of the claimant that appear in the form of your shipment made on 30

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

10/37

August: your name and two surnames, your address (street, number and postal code), the
mobile number, nationality and your ID number.
In the right column, under the heading "Profession of the payer", "Date of
birth” and “Telephone”, these three data of the claimant that appear
also in the money transfer form that you made on August 30.
In the section “Pay to”, C.C.C. appears as recipient. and mobile number
***PHONE.4.
At the end of the right column is the “Operator identification number”:
“Locutorio *** LOCUTORIO.1 -#L7934”.
Below is a signature that reads "A.A.A." The signature is, at a glance,
totally and absolutely different from that of the claimant, with which she does not present any
coincidence and of which there are several examples in the administrative file.

1.4. A document from the respondent with the following text:
<<In response to your request dated 06/21/2022, we detail the
process for money transfers made in my call shop:
1. We ask for the client's document
2. We ask which country they want to send money to
3. If you are a regular customer We ask with which company you want to send, we have
several companies
4. If the client has chosen moneygram, we check if his data is on the file
of moneygram are correct.
5. We ask who wants to send the money and in case it is a new
beneficiary We ask full name of beneficiary, phone number
6. If it is payment on account, complete account number of the recipient, name
complete, telephone number, number of documents and name of the bank and the
relationship with the beneficiary.
7. We proceed to make the shipment and send the client's document scanned to the
waiting company that authorizes it and once it is authorized we proceed
make the shipment.>> (The emphasis is ours)

2. Before the complaining party.
They are received at the AEPD on June 30, 2022, sent by the party
claimant, the following documents:

2.1. Copy of the complaint filed at the Police Station on September 17
of 2019 (Attested ***ATESTADO.1). In it, firstly, it identifies the
appearing, the current claimant, through her DNI: it includes her name, surnames,
NIF, address, date of birth and telephone that coincide with those that appear in the
“Claim sheet” that she submitted to the OMIC. The complainant states that
on August 30, 2019 “he sent 500 euros to his brother-in-law F.F.F. cash
through Money Gran, at UNITED ANIF, S.L., located at ***ADDRESS.1,
handing over their personal documentation, which was in the possession of the
workers of this call center and receiving a receipt for said transaction.”
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

11/37

“That on the day indicated above, he received two emails in his email
by Money Gran, being able to observe how two shipments of
money to two people I did not know [...]”
“That the declarant had not made these money transfers, so she contacted
MoneyGram, which replied that it was an error at the time of
enter the email, so the denouncer asked them that as it was
of an error and since she had not made them they were deleted from her account
client."
“That these money transfers have not been deleted from your customer account, so
you think that some unknown person may have used your account fraudulently,
to make money transfers, not knowing the reasons why you would make
this action.
“That I enclose a receipt for the shipment made by her to her brother-in-law on 08/28/2019,
email with reference number of fraudulent shipments as well as
transaction history of your profile.” (emphasis ours)

2.2. An identical brief to the one filed on October 16, 2019, which has been
described in the First Fact Record – document that is also signed
by the claimant. The document in question has the structure of a complaint
addressed to the Court for the alleged commission of several crimes of which
holds the erroneous claimant -UNITED ANIF, S.L.- and MoneyGram responsible
International, SRL.- with the particularity that with it it provides the following captures
of screen obtained from a mobile terminal:

Yo. One image reads: “Thank you! We will reply to you as soon as possible. number of
attendance tracking ***EMAIL.3”. In the other image, after the anagram of
the company says, it reads: “Money Gram. Closed profile After review
thorough”. The complainant explains that these screenshots refer to a
claim in which you requested to cancel remittances number ***INCIDENCIA.1 and
***INCIDENCE.2.

ii. The profile you have on the Money Gram website with your “Transaction History”.
Four transactions are reflected, in addition to one carried out in 2018, the
that the claimant made on August 30, 2019 and the two made on August 2,
September 2020 that she did not order and on which this procedure deals
sanctioning

23. Copy of the email the claimant received on September 3, 2019
from ***EMAIL.4. identified with the reference “Money Gram Case 9079320”. In the
message tells you that the customer provided an invalid email address or the
agent entered the wrong email address when entering it into the system, which caused
that the claimant received a notice regarding the transaction. (“Dear A.A.A., We regret
to learn that the consumer provided an invalid email address or the agent mistyped the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

12/37

email address in the system, which caused you to receive a notification about a
transaction.”)

3. Before MONEY GRAM INTERNATIONAL, SRL.
This entity has not responded to the requested evidence.

SEVENTH: Attached as an Annex is the list of documents that are in the
process.

Of the actions carried out in this procedure and the documentation
in the file, the following have been accredited:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: The claimant denounces that the claimed party, owner of the Locutorio
***LOCUTORIO.1, authorized agent of Money Gram International, S.P.R.L., linked
your personal data to two money transfers made through Money Gram, to which
that she is someone else's, which were managed by the aforementioned call center on September 2,
2019.

SECOND: The claimant stated in her claim that she received at her address
email, ***EMAIL.1, on September 2, 2019, at 7:04 p.m. and 7:52 p.m.,
respectively, two emails sent by Moneygram Payment
Systems, Inc. regarding two money transfers that she did not order, addressed to people
that he claims not to know, which contained the following information:

-In one of them, reference number ***MESSAGE.1, appears as the recipient of the
shipping C.C.C.; the amount to be sent is XXX.X €; the date the money was
collected “(...)” and the amount to receive “(...)”.
-In the other, with reference number ***MESSAGE.2, it appears that the addressee is
D.D.D.; the amount of the shipment XXX.X €; the date the money was collected by the
recipient “(...)” and the amount to receive “(...)”.

THIRD: The claimant sent money on August 30, 2019 to
through MoneyGram, managed by the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1, and on the same day,
at 8:18 p.m., he received an email to his email address ***EMAIL.1 from
Moneygram Payment Systems, Inc. confirming the shipment and receipt of the
remittance by the recipient. The reference number was included in the message.
XXXXXXXX; the name of the person receiving the shipment; the amount sent,
XXX.X€; the date on which the money was collected, “(...)” and the amount to be received, “(...)”.

FOURTH: The respondent has provided, in response to the requested evidence, the
forms documenting the money transfers that the claimant
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

13/37

made on August 30, 2019 (i) and the two shipments to which your data was linked
personal and that she did not order made on August 2, 2019, (ii) and (iii).

The three documents have in their header, on the right, the anagram of Money
Gram and, to the left, the indications “Envío/ Send”, “Agent: LOCUTORIO
***CALL SHOP.1-#L7934” and the respective “Delivery note” number.

(i) Form documenting the remittance of money made by the claiming party
from the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1, through Money Gram, on August 30,
2019 at 13.09.51 bearing the delivery note number ***ALBARAN.1 and the number of
reference XXXXXXXX.
In the section “Shipping settlement data”, Bogotá (Colombia) is indicated as the destination.
and an amount to be sent of XXX.XX euros.
In the section "Data of the person sending the shipment", the name and two
surnames of the claimant; A.A.A.; your address, street *** ADDRESS.2, C.P. of
Madrid, the mobile number ***TELÉFONO.1, the nationality, Spanish and the number
of DNI ***NIF.1.
In the right column, under the heading "Profession of the payer" it appears "EMPLOYEE
OF HOME”, the “Date of birth” “15-07-1979” and the “Telephone” number
***TELEPHONE 1.
The heading "Pay to" includes the name and two surnames of the recipient -E.E.E.-
and a mobile number, ***PHONE.2.
The document is signed by the claimant with the following text: “XXXXXXXXX”. A
At first glance, that signature is identical to the signatures of the claimant that appear on the
documentation that is in the file: That is, in the complaint made in the
Police Station, in the "Complaint Sheet" that he filed with the OMIC and in the
document attached to that form that was sent to the AEPD on October 16, 2019.

(ii) Form that documents the transfer of money made by a third party from the
Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1, through Money Gram, on September 2, 2019 at
the “19.52:40”. The delivery note number that identifies it is XXXXXXX and in the column
right of the document contains the reference ***MENSAJE.2.
In the section “Shipping settlement data”, Bogotá (Colombia) is indicated as the destination.
and an amount to be sent of XXX.XX euros.
In the section "Data of the person sending the shipment", all the data
claims of the claimant that were collected in the form of your money transfer
made on August 30: your name and two surnames, your address (street, number and
zip code), mobile number, nationality and ID number.
In the right column, under the heading "Profession of the payer", "Date of
birth” and “Telephone”, the three details of the claimant that appear
in the form related to the transfer of money that you made on August 30.
In the “Pay to” section, the addressee is D.D.D. and mobile number
***PHONE.3.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

14/37

The document bears a signature in which is written "A.A.A." This signature is, simply
view, totally and absolutely different from that of the claimant, with which she does not present
no match.

(iii) Form that documents the transfer of money made by a third party from the
Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1, through Money Gram, on September 2, 2019 at
the “19.04.14”. The delivery note number that identifies it is *** DELIVERY DELIVERY.2 and on the
The right column of the document contains the reference number ***MESSAGE.1.
In the section "Delivery settlement data", it appears as destination Bogotá (Colombia) and
an amount to be sent of XXX.XX euros.
In the section "Data of the person sending the shipment", the data
claims of the claimant that appear in the form of your shipment made on 30
August: your name and two surnames, your address (street, number and postal code), the
mobile number, nationality and your ID number.
In the right column, under the heading "Profession of the payer", "Date of
birth” and “Telephone”, these three data of the claimant that appear
also in the money transfer form that you made on August 30.
In the section “Pay to”, C.C.C. appears as recipient. and mobile number
***PHONE.4.
Below is a signature that reads "A.A.A." The signature is, at a glance,
totally and absolutely different from that of the claimant, with which she does not present any
coincidence and of which there are several examples in the administrative file.

FIFTH: The file contains a copy of the complaint that the claimant filed on
September 17, 2019 at the Police Station (Attested ***ATESTADO.1) The
two pages of the complaint are signed by the claimant.

The complaint identifies the appearing party through her DNI: it includes her
name, surnames, NIF, address, date of birth and telephone. These data are the
same as those that appear in the "Claim Sheet" that the claimant presented
before the OMIC.

The claimant states in the police report that on August 30, 2019 “she carried out
a shipment of 500 euros to his brother-in-law F.F.F. in cash through Money Gran, in
premises UNITED ANIF, S.L., located on street *** ADDRESS.1, delivering your
personal documentation, which was in the possession of the workers of this
booth and receiving a receipt for said transaction.”
“That on the day indicated above [September 2, 2019] he received in his mail
email two emails from Money Gran, being able to observe
how two money transfers had been made to two people I did not know [...]”
“That the declarant had not made these money transfers, so she contacted
MoneyGram, which replied that it was an error at the time of
enter the email, so the denouncer asked them that as it was

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

15/37

of an error and since she had not made them they were deleted from her account
client."
“That these money transfers have not been deleted from your customer account, so
you think that some unknown person may have used your account fraudulently,
to make money transfers, not knowing the reasons why you would make
this action.
“That I enclose a receipt for the shipment made by her to her brother-in-law on 08/28/2019,
email with reference number of fraudulent shipments as well as
transaction history of your profile.” (emphasis ours)

SIXTH: The claimant filed various claims with Money Gram as a result of
receive emails informing you of two money transfers
allegedly made by her on September 2. To this end, it has provided:

-The copy of the email you received on September 3, 2019 from
***EMAIL.4., identified with the reference “Money Gram Case XXXXXXX”. In the
message tells you that the customer provided an invalid email address or the
agent entered the wrong email address when entering it into the system, which caused
that the claimant received a notice regarding the transaction.

-Two screenshots obtained from a mobile terminal that, as stated, relate to
about the complaints that he directed to Money Gram to request that he cancel the
remittances numbers ***INCIDENCIA.1 and ***INCIDENCIA.2. An image reads:
"Thank you! We will reply to you as soon as possible. Attendance Tracking Number
***EMAIL.3”.

In the other image, after the company logo, it reads: “Money Gram. Profile
closed After a thorough review.”

SEVENTH: Work in the file, provided by the claimant in the evidence phase, a
screenshot of a mobile terminal with MoneyGram system information
relating to your “Transaction History”. The image shows this information:

-In the first place, the indication “2 de sept. 2019”, “Complete”. Underneath, “Number of
Refer...” “(…)”. And below, “XXX,XX EUR” “Money receipt”.
-The second register says: "Sept 2." Complete". Underneath, “Núm de Refere...”
"C.C.C." Below, “XXX.XX EUR” “Money receipt”.
-The third record carries this information: “30 Aug. 2019”, “Complete”. Underneath, “Number of
Referee...” “F.F.F. ”. And below, “XXX,XX EUR” “Money receipt”.
-The last record that appears in the provided screenshot can be viewed
this information: “Dec 15. 2018”, “Complete”. Below, “Núm de Refere...” “(…)”. Y
below, “XXX.XX EUR” “Money receipt”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

16/37

EIGHTH: The claimant filed a claim on October 16, 2019 with the
OMIC of the Madrid City Council directed against UNITED ANIF, S.L., as
owner of the Locutorio *** LOCUTORIO.1 (the erroneous claimed), whom he held responsible
of having used your personal data to link them to two money transfers
made on August 2, 2019 that she did not order. Works in the file the "Leaf
of Claim”, which the OMIC sent to the AEPD on October 16, 2019.
It is duly completed and signed by the claimant and in the section
intended for "Signature and stamp of the claimed" bears the stamp of UNITED ANIF,
SL

On January 5, 2021, the OMIC sends to the AEPD the communication it received
of the claimant in December 2020 in which she rectified the identification data
of the owner of the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1 on the date on which the
facts and reported that on that date the owner was B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1.

NINTH: Regarding the business activity of the claimant, works in the
file, provided by the respondent, the "Simplified Census Declaration of
registration, modification and cancellation in the census of companies, professionals and retainers”
(model 037) filed with the State Tax Administration Agency (AEAT),
in which it is stated that the census registration date and the date on which the claimant began her
activity was on July 11, 2019.

The lease contract to which it is a party is also in the file.
lessee the claimed, signed on July 1, 2019, being the object of the
leasing the business premises located in calle ***DIRIMIENTO.1 of Madrid.
 
TENTH: The respondent, in her response to the requested evidence, has stated that
the process that follows in the management of money transfers made from your
booth is as follows:
<<1. We ask for the client's document
 2. We ask which country they want to send money to
 3. If you are a regular customer We ask with which company you want to send, we have
several companies
4. If the client has chosen moneygram, we check if his data is on the file
of moneygram are correct.
5. We ask who wants to send the money and in case it is a new
beneficiary We ask full name of beneficiary, phone number
6. If it is payment on account, complete account number of the recipient, name
complete, telephone number, number of documents and name of the bank and the
relationship with the beneficiary.
7. We proceed to make the shipment and send the client's document scanned to the
waiting company that authorizes it and once it is authorized we proceed
make the shipment.>> (The emphasis is ours)

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

17/37

ELEVENTH: In the global privacy policy of Money Gram, incorporated into the
procedure by diligence of the instructor of July 18, 2022, are collected,
among others, these forecasts:
<<[...]
OUR DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES
[...].
We are committed to complying with data protection laws and ensuring
that personal information is: • Used lawfully, fairly and transparently;
•Collected only for valid purposes that we have clearly explained to you and not used
improperly; • Relevant for the purposes we have communicated to you and limited
for those purposes only • Accurate and up-to-date; • Stored only as long as necessary to
the purposes that we have indicated; and • Stored securely.
[...]
PURPOSES OF THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA [...]
We use personal data that you provide to us or that we collect about you
for the following purposes, as permitted by law:
• For the performance of a contract with you, to send you transactional messages
and other administrative messages when requesting money transfer services; [...]
• To comply with a legal or regulatory obligation, [...]
[...]
OUR INFORMATION SECURITY STANDARDS [...]
We use appropriate organizational, technical and administrative measures to
maintain the security of your personal information and to protect it from
destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access to information
personnel under our control.
[...]
In addition, we take precautionary measures to restrict access to information
staff only to those who need it, such as our employees, service providers,
services, agents, partners and other third parties/external advisers, as applicable.
All those who have access or are related to the processing of
personal information are contractually bound to respect the confidentiality of your
personal information, implement appropriate security standards, and comply
with applicable data privacy standards and policies.
[...]>> (Underlining is ours)

TWELFTH: The Money Gram forms in which the shipments are documented
of cash managed by the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1 that have been described in the
Fourth Proven Fact include at the end this legend:
“General Conditions”: “This transaction is subject to the terms and conditions
provided in the establishments of the agents and in ***EMAIL.2o/term .
[...] By continuing with this transaction:
. Acknowledge the fraud warnings listed above
. Confirm that you are the sole beneficiary of the funds and that you are not sending money in
name of a third party
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

18/37

.[...]” (Underlining is ours)

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

Competition of the AEPD

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.

Article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that "The procedures processed by the
Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

Responsible for data processing in which the conduct contrary to the
GDPR

 

Article 4 of the RGPD, “Definitions”, provides that “For the purposes of this
Regulation shall be understood as:
[...]
7) “responsible for the treatment” or “responsible”: the natural or legal person,
public authority, service or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the
purposes and means of treatment; whether the law of the Union or of the Member States
determines the purposes and means of the treatment, the person in charge of the treatment or the
Specific criteria for their appointment may be established by Union Law.
or of the Member States;
8) “in charge of the treatment” or “in charge”: the natural or legal person, authority
public, service or other body that processes personal data on behalf of the
data controller;”

Article 28 of the RGPD, “Data Processor”, stipulates:

"1. When a treatment is going to be carried out on behalf of a person in charge of the
treatment, this will only choose a person in charge who offers sufficient guarantees
to apply appropriate technical and organizational measures, so that the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

19/37

treatment is in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation and guarantees the
protection of the rights of the interested party.
two.[...]
3. The treatment by the person in charge will be governed by a contract or other legal act with
under the law of the Union or of the Member States, binding the person in charge
with respect to the person in charge and establish the object, duration, nature and
purpose of the treatment, the type of personal data and categories of interested parties, and the
obligations and rights of the controller. Said contract or legal act shall stipulate, in
particular, that the person in charge:
a) will process personal data only following documented instructions of the
responsible, including with respect to transfers of personal data to a
third country or an international organization, unless required to do so under
of the Law of the Union or of the Member States that applies to the person in charge; in
In such a case, the person in charge will inform the person in charge of that legal requirement prior to the
treatment, unless such Law prohibits it for important reasons of interest
public; b) will guarantee that the persons authorized to process personal data
have undertaken to respect confidentiality or are subject to an obligation
confidentiality of a statutory nature;
c) take all necessary measures in accordance with article 32;
d) will respect the conditions indicated in sections 2 and 4 to resort to another
treatment manager;
e) will assist the person in charge, taking into account the nature of the treatment, through
appropriate technical and organizational measures, whenever possible, so that this
can comply with its obligation to respond to requests that are intended to
the exercise of the rights of the interested parties established in chapter III;
f) will help the person in charge to guarantee the fulfillment of the obligations
established in articles 32 to 36, taking into account the nature of the treatment
and the information available to the person in charge;
g) at the choice of the person in charge, will delete or return all personal data once
Once the provision of treatment services ends, and will delete the copies
existing unless the retention of personal data is required under
of the Law of the Union or of the Member States;
h) will make available to the person in charge all the information necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the obligations established in this article, as well as
to enable and assist in the performance of audits, including inspections, by
part of the person in charge or of another auditor authorized by said person in charge.
In relation to the provisions of letter h) of the first paragraph, the person in charge will inform
immediately to the controller if, in his opinion, an instruction violates this
Regulation or other provisions on data protection of the Union or of
the member states.
4.[...]
5. The treatment manager's adherence to a code of conduct approved by
under article 40 or to an approved certification mechanism under article

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

20/37

42 may be used as an element to demonstrate the existence of guarantees
enough referred to in sections 1 and 4 of this article.
6. Notwithstanding that the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment celebrate a
individual contract, the contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4
of this article may be based, totally or partially, on the clauses
standard contracts referred to in sections 7 and 8 of this article, inclusive
when they form part of a certification granted to the person in charge or in charge of
in accordance with articles 42 and 43.
7. The Commission may set standard contractual clauses for the matters to which it
referred to in sections 3 and 4 of this article, in accordance with the procedure of
examination referred to in article 93, paragraph 2.
8. A supervisory authority may adopt standard contractual clauses for matters
referred to in sections 3 and 4 of this article, in accordance with the
coherence mechanism referred to in article 63.
9. The contract or other legal act referred to in sections 3 and 4 shall be recorded by
written, including in electronic format.
10. Without prejudice to the provisions of articles 82, 83 and 84, if a person in charge of the
treatment infringes this Regulation by determining the purposes and means of the
treatment, will be considered responsible for the treatment with respect to said
treatment."

The Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1 was an authorized agent of Money Gram when
the events that are the subject of this claim occurred, an extreme that remains
accredited in light of the documentation in the file. For this purpose they can
cite the forms of the cash shipments managed by the booth on dates
August 30, 2019 and September 2, 2019 bearing the anagram of
MoneyGram and in which the agent is identified as “CALL SHOP
*** CALL ROOM.1-#L7934”. Also confirms MoneyGram agent status
of the aforementioned booth that in the "Shipment History" of the claimant that works in the
Money Gram systems, of which there is a screenshot on file
provided by the claimant, reflect the cash shipments managed by the
Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1 on August 30 and September 2, 2019. Or that the
remittances managed through the aforementioned booth would have been
effectively delivered to their recipients and had generated the referral, to whom
was recorded as the ordering person of such shipments, of an email sent
by Moneygram Payment Systems, Inc. in which he reported the delivery of the money to
the recipients.

In turn, on the date of September 2, 2019 in which the personal data of the
claimant were linked to two money transfers that she did not order managed
from the aforementioned booth, the owner of the business was the one claimed, B.B.B., with NIF
***NIF.1.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

21/37

This circumstance has been accredited in the administrative file whenever
that the respondent, in response to the evidence requested, has provided the Declaration
Simplified Census of registration, modification and cancellation in the Census of companies,
professionals and retainers before the AEAT in which as the date of census registration and start
of activity on July 11, 2019. So that the registration and start of the activity
of the one claimed in the business known as Locutorio *** LOCUTORIO.1 there was
a little over a month before the events occurred. Also works in
file the lease agreement signed by the respondent on July 1, 2019
as the lessee of the business premises located on the street *** ADDRESS.1, in the
which is located the Locutorio *** LOCUTORIO.1.

In attention to the aforementioned documentation, and for more than the Claim Sheet,
copy for the Administration, which the claimant presented to the OMIC of
Madrid City Council will have in the space for "Signature and stamp of the
claimed” the seal of UNITED ANIF, S.L., the truth is that on the date of the events
the owner of the call center from which the cash transfers were managed was not that
but, as the claimant communicated to the OMIC and that organization informed the
AEPD on January 5, 2021, B.B.B..

MoneyGram's Global Privacy Policy, updated as of April 1,
2022, which is accessed from its website, reports that, regarding the
data processing carried out within the scope of the European Union in relation to
with the personal information that is provided to its agents, the person in charge of the
treatment is MoneyGram International SPRL, “a Belgian entity with registered office
at Rue Joseph Stevens BE-1000 Brussels, Belgium. In these cases, MoneyGram
International SRL will be the "data controller" of your personal information collected
in the EU.”

We reproduce below a fragment of the aforementioned Privacy Policy
Money Gram Global, of which a copy is included in the file incorporated
by due diligence during the testing phase:

<<MoneyGram is a leading global financial technology company that
offers innovative money transfer and payment services to millions of
consumers around the world. We are committed to safeguarding the
privacy of your personal information. This Privacy Notice describes
our data privacy practices and policies when it relates to
us, including how we collect, use and share your
personal information in accordance with laws and standards of ethical conduct
applicable. If our practices and policies change, we will update this Notice.
Of privacy.

ABOUT US? A "data controller" determines how and why a
organization will use personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

22/37

This Privacy Notice applies to MoneyGram Payment Systems, Inc., a
wholly owned subsidiary of MoneyGram International, Inc. and its
affiliates and subsidiaries worldwide (collectively, "MoneyGram",
"MoneyGram Group", "us",’ "our", "we"). Most of our
money transfer services and commercial activities are carried out
under MoneyGram Payment Systems, Inc., a US entity located in
1550 Utica Avenue South, Suite #100, Minneapolis, MN 55416, USA
(“MPSI”). Generally, MPSI will be the "data controller" in relation to
any personal information provided to us in any part of the
world, either in person at our agent locations, or by mail
email, phone, or through our website or mobile app, unless
that we have another local entity licensed by MoneyGram. This means that
MPSI is responsible for deciding how it will retain and use the information
staff about you. However, depending on your location and how
interact with us, an entity other than MoneyGram may be the
"data controller". For example, if you use our transfer services
of money in the European Union ("EU"), you will be interacting with MoneyGram
International SRL, a Belgian entity with registered office at Rue Joseph
Stevens BE-1000 Brussels, Belgium. In these cases, MoneyGram International
SRL will be the "data controller" of your personal information collected in the
EU.
[...]
SCOPE OF THIS PRIVACY NOTICE [...]. This Privacy Notice is
applies when you interact with MoneyGram anywhere in the world. By
For example, this Privacy Notice applies when you:
• You use any of MoneyGram's services, either directly or through
through our agents, mobile applications or websites;
[...]
OUR DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES
[...].
We are committed to complying with data protection laws and
ensure that personal information is: • Used lawfully, fairly and
transparent;
•Collected only for valid purposes that we have clearly explained to you and not
misused; • Relevant for the purposes we have communicated to you
and limited to those purposes only • Accurate and up-to-date; • Saved only while
it is necessary for the purposes that we have indicated; and • Saved as
safe.
[...]
HOW WE COLLECT PERSONAL INFORMATION [...]
We may collect personal information in a variety of ways, including:
• Directly from you: [...].
• Indirectly from you: [...]

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

23/37

• Other sources: for example, [...] information from our partners or agents,
depending on our relationship with them for the purposes listed in this
Privacy Notice and at all times in accordance with the laws.
[...]
PURPOSES OF THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA [...]
We use personal data that you provide to us or that we collect about
you for the following purposes, as permitted by law:
• For the performance of a contract with you, to send you messages of
transactions and other administrative messages when requesting services from
sending of money; [...]
• To comply with a legal or regulatory obligation, [...]
• To market our services, such as to send you marketing communications.
marketing in connection with our services, [...]
• To pursue our legitimate interest in accordance with the laws,
[...]
OUR INFORMATION SECURITY STANDARDS [...]
We use appropriate organizational, technical and administrative measures to
maintain the security of your personal information and to protect it from
destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure or access to the
personal information under our control.

We employ the appropriate techniques and security measures to protect
our systems and services. For example, when you provide your information
sensitive personal information, such as bank account information or a phone number
Social Security, the information is encrypted and protected in our systems.

Also,
 we take preventive measures to restrict access to
personal information only to those who need it, such as our
employees, service providers, agents, partners and other third parties/advisors
external, as appropriate. All who have access or are related
with the processing of personal information are contractually bound to
respect the confidentiality of your personal information, implement the
appropriate security standards and comply with security standards and policies.
applicable data privacy. Although our security standards of the
information conform to industry standards and requirements
data security and privacy, we make no warranty claims on
about security or
impenetrability of MoneyGram's systems in circumstances
extraordinary/exceptional or future sophisticated attacks.
(The
underlining is ours)

[...]>>

With regard to the facts that are the subject of the sanctioning file that concerns us,
under article 28.10 of the RGPD, it is estimated that the claimed, holder of the
Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1, authorized agent of Money Gram, is responsible for the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

24/37

treatment of the personal data of the claimant having managed, from the
establishment of which he is the owner, the sending of two cash remittances linked to the
personal data of the claimant on August 2, 2019, shipments that the
claimant did not contract. The aforementioned precept provides that “if a person in charge of
treatment”, a condition that in principle the defendant would have, “infringes the
this Regulation when determining the purposes and means of the treatment, it will be
considered responsible for the treatment with respect to such treatment.”

III

Violation of the principle of legality

1. The RGPD deals in its article 5 with the principles that govern the treatment of
personal data, provision that provides:

"1. The personal data will be:
a) treated lawfully, loyally and transparently with the interested party (<<lawfulness, loyalty and
transparency>>)”.

Article 6 of the RGPD under the heading "Legality of the treatment" specifies in its section
1 the cases in which the processing of personal data is considered lawful:

"1. The treatment will only be lawful if it meets at least one of the following
conditions:
a) the interested party gave their consent for the processing of their personal data
for one or more specific purposes;
b) the treatment is necessary for the execution of a contract in which the interested party
is part of or for the application at the request of the latter of pre-contractual measures;
c) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a legal obligation applicable to the
data controller;
d) the treatment is necessary to protect the vital interests of the interested party or another
Physical person.
e) the treatment is necessary for the fulfillment of a mission carried out in the interest
public or in the exercise of public powers vested in the data controller;
f) the treatment is necessary for the satisfaction of legitimate interests pursued
by the person in charge of the treatment or by a third party, provided that on said
interests do not override the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
interested party that require the protection of personal data, in particular when the
interested is a child.
The provisions of letter f) of the first paragraph shall not apply to the processing
carried out by public authorities in the exercise of their functions.”

The RGPD requires that the processing of personal data be lawful (article 5.1.a), to
which must be based on one of the legal bases that it relates in its
article 6.1. In light of the claimant's statements, it is evident that the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

25/37

treatment of your personal data carried out by the claimed party cannot be protected
in none of the reasons for legality detailed in article 6.1. GDPR.

Recital 39 of the RGPD says regarding the principle of legality that "All
Processing of personal data must be lawful and fair. For individuals, you must
be absolutely clear that they are being collected, used, consulted or processed
otherwise personal data concerning them, as well as the extent to which
said data is or will be processed. [...]”

2. In the case of fact examined, the treatment that the respondent made of the
data of the claimant could only be protected in the circumstance of the
article 6.1.b) RGPD – contracting the provision of a mailing service
cash to a third country through the company Money Gram - which would require that the
claimant would have been a party to both cash transfer contracts.

In relation to the legal basis of article 6.1.b) RGPD, recital 44 specifies
that “The treatment must be lawful when it is necessary in the context of a contract
or of the intention to conclude a contract.”

The documentation included in the file proves that the respondent processed the data
claims of the claimant linking them to two cash transfers managed from
his booth on August 2, 2019. They are in the file, provided by the
claimed in the test phase, the forms in which both shipments are
documented, identified with delivery note and reference numbers,
respectively, XXXXXXXX and ***MESSAGE.2, the delivery managed at 19:04:14,
for an amount of XXX.XX € addressed to C.C.C., and with the numbers ***ALBARÁN.2 and
***MESSAGE.1 the shipment managed at 7:52:40 p.m., for an amount of XXX.XX € addressed to
D.D.D.

In both documents, a person appears as the originator of the shipments.
identified with the name, two surnames, NIF, address (street, number and ZIP code),
nationality and mobile number of the complaining party. Also, in both
forms is collected as profession, date of birth and telephone number of the
person who sends the data of the claimant.

Now, these forms relating to shipments dated September 2, 2019
include the signature of the person who actually ordered the operation, even though
had provided the personal data of the claimant as their own. that signature is
totally and absolutely different from the signature of the claimant, in such a way that a simple
view and without any effort or specialized knowledge its total
disparity since it is not possible to find any similarity between the two.

Without prejudice to returning to this issue, and apart from the absolute disparity of the
calligraphy of the signature of the person who ordered the money transfers on September 2 and that of the
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

26/37

signature of the claimant, it is now worth highlighting the following characteristics of the
appears on the forms documenting the two August 2 money transfers
2019: Typed text reads “A.A.A.”; the name and surname are not written in
the same line, but the last name appears below the first name. In addition, the rubric
it encompasses both forming a kind of circle.

It is also proven in the file that the claimant, three days before
that the money transfers linked to your data were made, on August 30,
2019, ordered a money transfer by Money Gram through the Locutorio
***CALL SHOP.1. Shipment that was addressed to E.E.E., for an amount of 495.50 euros and,
as well as the shipments that were made with her data and to which she is unrelated,
directed to Bogota (Colombia).

The form of that cash shipment is in the file, which is signed
by the claimant. The form includes the following personal data of the
claimant: In the section called "Data of the person who makes the shipment",
his name and two surnames appear – A.A.A.-; your address in street *** ADDRESS.2,
C.P. from Madrid; the mobile number ***PHONE.1; Spanish nationality and
DNI number ***NIF.1. In the right column of the form, under the rubric
"Profession of the payer" includes "HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYEE", the "Date of birth"
“15-07-1979” and the “Telephone” number ***TELEPHONE.1.

Beneath there is a signature that reads “XXXXXXXXX”. This signature is identical
to other signatures of the claimant that appear in various documents that are part
of the administrative file. In particular, they are signed by the claimant the
complaint filed at the Police Station (one signature on each page), the “Hoja
of claim” that he presented before the OMIC and the document attached to the
Claim, documents that the OMIC sent to the AEPD on October 16, 2019.

As has been anticipated, there is a total and absolute discrepancy between the firms that
appear on the forms of shipments made on behalf of the claimant in
date September 2, 2019 and the one included in the delivery form that the
claimant did make on August 30, 2019. Signature, the latter, which, as
has warned, it is at first glance the same that is incorporated into other documents that the
claimant signed of which there are examples in the administrative file.

One look at both signatures - the one from the claimant and the one from the submission forms.
made on August 2, 2019- to perceive these differentiating characteristics:
The graphics between one and the other is radically different; the text is too
claimant always writes XXXXXXXXX as long as the person who made the shipments
dated September 2, 2019 writes “A.A.A.”. Note that “A.A.A.” is he
second last name of the claimant and that in none of the signatures of the claimant of
The one we have examples in the file does not include a last name. In addition to this,
the person who ordered the money transfers on August 2, 2019 wrote the name
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

27/37

and the last name at different heights so that the last name appears below the first name.
The signature is also radically different between both firms: while the
claimed is elliptical in shape that of the third party who ordered the shipments on August 2,
2019 is a circle that includes the name and surname written one above the
other.

The claimant has repeatedly denied that she was involved in any of the
the operations of sending cash remittances that the respondent managed
linked to your personal data on September 2, 2019, exactly the
same data that she had provided three days earlier, on August 30, when
contracted the money transfer service. In this regard, it is recalled that the
claimant went to Money Gram International, SRL and filed a claim,
at the latest, the day following receipt of electronic messages from
MoneyGram Payment Systems, Inc., since the response to your complaint was sent on
August 3, 2019. This is an email sent from ***EMAIL.4
regarding the matter identified with the reference “Money Gram Case 9079320” (Made
Tested sixth)

The claimant continued to take steps with Money Gram to unlink
her personal data from money transfers that she did not make. To this end, it has
sent to the AEPD a screenshot obtained from the Money Gram systems
with your "Transaction History" in which they appear as shipments made by
she, in addition to the one she did order, dated August 30, the two shipments to which she is
outside, dated September 2 (Seventh Proven Fact). He has also provided two
screenshots of Money Gram's response telling you that,
After a thorough review, your profile has been closed. answer that,
as stated by the claimant, it refers to the claim that she filed requesting
to cancel remittances number ***INCIDENCIA.1 and ***INCIDENCIA.2.

In addition, the claimant filed a complaint with the Police for these events on March 17,
September 2019, the content of which is detailed in the fifth Proven Fact.

3. The Money Gram forms on which the shipments were documented
managed by the Locutorio ***LOCUTORIO.1 include this legend: “Conditions
General”: “This transaction is subject to the general terms and conditions
provided at agent locations and at ***EMAIL.2o/term . [...]" (Done
tested twelfth)

Although it is true that there is no agreement to order treatment that Money
Gram should have signed with the defendant, owner of the Locutorio *** LOCUTORIO.1
who is an authorized agent of that entity, Money Gram's Global Policy published
on its web page -of which a fragment is transcribed in Legal Foundation II and
of which a copy has been incorporated into the procedure (Eleventh Proven Fact)-
In addition to specifying that the information it deals with is collected, among other sources, “from
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

28/37

our partners or agents, depending on our relationship with them for the purposes
listed in this Privacy Notice and at all times in accordance with the
laws” and mention among the “Purposes of personal data processing” “[...]
the performance of a contract with you, to send you transactional messages and
other administrative messages when requesting money transfer services; [...]”,
stipulates under the heading “Our information security standards”:

“All those who have access to or are related to the processing of
personal information are contractually bound to respect the confidentiality of your
personal information, implement appropriate security standards, and comply
with applicable data privacy standards and policies. Although our
information security standards conform to industry standards
and data security and privacy requirements, we make no claims of
warranty as to the security or impenetrability of MoneyGram's systems
in extraordinary/exceptional circumstances or future sophisticated attacks. [...]" (The
underlining is ours)

Regarding the “general terms and conditions provided in the establishments of
the agents”, the respondent responded to the request that was made in the trial phase
to explain the procedure it had in place for managing shipments
of money you make from your booth:

"1. We ask for the client's document
 2. We ask which country they want to send money to
 3. If you are a regular customer We ask with which company you want to send, we have
several companies
4. If the client has chosen moneygram, we check if his data is on the file
of moneygram are correct.
5. We ask who wants to send the money and in case it is a new
beneficiary We ask full name of beneficiary, phone number
6. If it is payment on account, complete account number of the recipient, name
complete, telephone number, number of documents and name of the bank and the
relationship with the beneficiary.
7. We proceed to make the shipment and send the client's document scanned to the
waiting company that authorizes it and once it is authorized we proceed
make the shipment
 

 .” (emphasis ours)

Despite the measures that the respondent claims to have adopted on the occasion of the
contracting of money transfers - such as the request for documentation to the client-, which
It is true that this request does not seem to have been fulfilled with respect to shipments
made on August 2.

The documentation in the file offers clear evidence that the
person who ordered the disputed shipments was not the claimant. That's how it shows
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

29/37

the signature and rubric that appears in the forms of these shipments of August 2,
totally different at a glance from the signature of the claimant that appears in the
document relating to the shipment made by her on August 30, or with other
documents signed by the claimant that are in the file. Be added,
also, that it is striking that the facts object of the claim had
occurred three days after the claimant contracted through the Locutorio
*** LOCUTORIO.1 the delivery service through Money Gram. It is equally
striking from the point of view of the obligation incumbent on the claimed
“implement appropriate security standards and comply with the standards and
applicable data privacy policies” than in the protocol that follows for the
management of cash transfers include a scan of the client's form
which, subsequently, the claimed party sends to the company.

In short, the respondent managed two cash shipments on August 2,
2019 associated with the data of the claimant, who did not order or intervene in that
operation, so the processing of your personal data cannot be based on the
reason for legality of section b) of article 6.1 of the RGPD. They don't attend either
no other legal basis for the treatment of those contemplated in said precept.
As has been proven according to the disparity of the signatures of the person who hired
shipments managed on September 2 and the signature of the claimant, on the occasion of
those two shipments, the respondent did not observe any diligence to guarantee respect
of the legality principle, compliance with which requires verifying the identity of the person
Provides certain personal data as your own.

IV

sanctioning type

The conduct for which the defendant is held responsible, specified in having treated
the personal data of the claimant associating them with two contracts for sending
cash remittances in which she did not intervene and, as a consequence, communicating
your details to Moneygram Payment Systems, Inc., at least your email address,
constitutes an infringement of the principle of legality of the treatment.

The treatment of the personal data of the claimant carried out by the claimed party does not
can rely on any of the legal bases provided for in article 6.1 of the
RGPD, thereby violating this provision that is typified in article
83.5.a) RGPD, provision that establishes:

“General conditions for the imposition of administrative fines”,
“[...]
"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
section 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of 20,000,000 Eur or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

30/37

Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount:
a) The basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the
consent under articles 5,6,7 and 9.”

The LOPDGDD, in order to determine the limitation period of the infraction,
qualifies this violation of the RGPD in its article 72 of very serious infraction. The
precept provides:

"1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:
a) [...]
b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the conditions of
legality of the treatment established in article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.”

Sanction of administrative fine: criteria for determining its amount

v

Article 58 of the RGPD, "Powers", provides in its section 2 that each authority of
control will have the corrective powers detailed in sections a) to j). Among
them, section i) contemplates the imposition of an “administrative fine in accordance with
to article 83, in addition to or instead of the measures mentioned in this
section, according to the circumstances of each particular case;

In the case examined, it is deemed appropriate that, in accordance with article 58.2 of the
RGPD, the imposition of the corrective fine measure is proposed to the claimed party
administrative.

In order to determine the amount of the fine with which it is proposed to sanction the
claimed as responsible for an infringement of article 6.1. of the RGPD, they must
apply the provisions of articles 83.1 and 83.2 of the RGPD.

Article 83 of the RGPD, in section 1, requires the control authorities to
administrative fines imposed for offenses classified in sections 4.5
and 6 of the precept, be, "in each individual case", "effective, proportionate and
dissuasive.”

For its part, article 83.2 RGPD provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

31/37

“Administrative fines will be imposed, depending on the circumstances of each
individual case, in addition to or as a substitute for the measures contemplated in the
Article 58, paragraph 2, letters a) to h) and j). When deciding to impose a fine
administration and its amount in each individual case will be duly taken into account:

a) the nature, seriousness and duration of the offence, taking into account the
nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation in question, as well
such as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages that
have suffered;

b) intentionality or negligence in the infringement;

c) any measure taken by the controller or processor to
alleviate the damages suffered by the interested parties;

d) the degree of responsibility of the person in charge or of the person in charge of the treatment,
taking into account the technical or organizational measures that they have applied under
of articles 25 and 32;

e) any previous infringement committed by the person in charge or the person in charge of the treatment;

f) the degree of cooperation with the supervisory authority in order to remedy the
infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the infringement;

g) the categories of personal data affected by the infringement;

h) the way in which the supervisory authority became aware of the infringement, in
particular whether the person in charge or the person in charge notified the infringement and, if so, in what
measure;

i) when the measures indicated in article 58, section 2, have been ordered
previously against the person in charge or the person in charge in question in relation to the
same matter, compliance with said measures;

j) adherence to codes of conduct under article 40 or mechanisms of
certification approved in accordance with article 42, and

k) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the circumstances of the case,
such as financial benefits obtained or losses avoided, directly or
indirectly, through the infringement.”

Regarding section k) of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the LOPDGDD, article 76,
“Sanctions and corrective measures”, provides:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

32/37

"two. In accordance with the provisions of article 83.2.k) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
may also be taken into account:

a) The continuing nature of the offence.

b) The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal information.

c) The profits obtained as a result of committing the offence.

d) The possibility that the conduct of the affected party could have induced the commission
of the offence.

e) The existence of a merger by absorption process subsequent to the commission of the
infringement, which cannot be attributed to the absorbing entity.

f) Affectation of the rights of minors.

g) Have, when not mandatory, a data protection delegate.

h) Submission by the person in charge or person in charge, on a voluntary basis, to
alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, in those cases in which
there are controversies between them and any interested party.”

In accordance with the transcribed precepts, it is appreciated with respect to the offending conduct
that the concurrence of the following factors that involve
an aggravation of the responsibility of the offending subject:

- Article 83.2.a) RGPD: “the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, taking
taking into account the nature, scope or purpose of the processing operation to be carried out.
concerned, as well as the number of interested parties affected and the level of damages
who have suffered."

In the case examined there are various elements that show the seriousness of the
that conduct taking into account its “scope”: (i) There have been two operations of
remittance of cash in which the claimed party processed the personal data of the claimant
without legitimation. Operations carried out on September 2, 2019 and identified
with the references ***MESSAGE.1 and ***MESSAGE.2. (ii) The illicit treatment of the
claimant's personal data did not consist solely of linking the data
claims of the claimant to the two shipments mentioned, but as
Consequently, the claimant's data was communicated to a third party, Moneygram
Payment Systems, Inc.; at least your email address, otherwise the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

33/37

claimant would not have received the messages from that company informing him
of shipments made.

Regarding “the level of damages” suffered by the claimant, there are no available
information about the concrete consequences derived from the illicit treatment, although
the stipulations included in the General Conditions of the Money forms
Gram in which shipments were documented hint at potential harm
for those who make a cash transfer that is not part of their assets or that
send money transfers on behalf of a third party. We refer to the Proven Fact
twelfth in which the stipulation of the referred conditioned is transcribed that says
that by continuing with the transaction the sender confirms that he is the sole beneficiary
of the funds and that you are not sending money on behalf of a third party.

-The intention or negligence in the infringement, a circumstance included in the article
83.2.b) GDPR.

In the development of her business activity, the respondent was obliged to adopt
the necessary measures to guarantee respect for the principle of legality, which
obliged to verify that whoever, on the occasion of a request to send money
provided as its own certain personal data was effectively its owner. In
In this case, in light of the documentation in the file,
clearly evidences that the defendant absolutely omitted the slightest
diligence to verify the identity of the person who ordered the cash shipments from
date August 2, 2019, essential to comply with the principle of legality
of the treatment provided for in article 5.1.a) of the RGPD and regulated in article 6 of the
GDPR.

- “The categories of personal data affected by the infringement;”
article 82.g) RGPD. There are numerous personal data of the claimant that
have been processed by the claimed party without any legal basis. Besides of
NIF, which unequivocally identifies the person, their name and two surnames, the date
of birth, domicile, nationality, and especially significant insofar as
it is not customary to include them in identity documents, your mobile phone number
and his profession.

 

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

34/37

- “The link between the activity of the offender and the performance of treatment of
personal data”, circumstance provided for in article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD in connection
with article 83.2.k) RGPD.

The business activity of the respondent related to the management of remittances from
money presupposes necessarily dealing with personal data, both of those who request
the service as well as the recipients of the shipments. This characteristic of its activity
business has repercussions on the diligence that must be displayed in complying with the
principles governing the processing of personal data.

As a circumstance that mitigates the demandable responsibility, it is taken into consideration
that provided for in article 83.2.k) RGPD: “any other mitigating factor (...) applicable
to the circumstances of the case”.

Despite the fact that the respondent in the evidence phase was asked to provide the statement
income tax for the year 2019 in order to know the volume of income reported by your
activity, did not provide that document or any other information.

The economic situation of the natural person responsible for the violation of the RGPD
that we examine must be suitably valued to make reality the
requirement of the Regulation that the administrative fines be, not only effective and
dissuasive, but also proportionate.

Given the lack of information on this matter, the only
available reference: the business activity carried out by the claimed party,
activity carried out in the establishment of which he is the owner -Locutorio
*** CALL ROOM.1- which allows us to presume that it did not have a high volume of business.
It is assessed, among other factors, that the events occurred when the
a little over a month from the start of their business activity.

Thus, in light of the foregoing considerations, given the circumstances
concurrent, both adverse -article 83.2.a; 83.2.b); 83.2.g) and 83.2.k) in relation to
article 76.2.b) LOPDGDD- as favorable to the claimed -article 83.2.k) RGPD-,
intends to impose on the party claimed for the infringement of article 6.1 of the RGPD of
which is responsible, an administrative fine amounting to €2,000
(two thousand euros).

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

35/37

In view of the foregoing, the following is issued

MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION

That the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency sanction
B.B.B., with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of article 6.1. of the RGPD, typified in the
article 83.5.a) of the RGPD, with an administrative fine of €2,000 (two thousand euros)

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 of the LPACAP,
informs that you may, at any time prior to the resolution of this
procedure, carry out the voluntary payment of the proposed sanction, which
will mean a reduction of 20% of its amount. With the application of this
reduction, the sanction would be established at €1,600 (one thousand six hundred euros) and its payment
will imply the termination of the procedure. The effectiveness of this reduction will be
conditioned to the abandonment or renunciation of any action or resource in via
administrative against the sanction.

In case you chose to proceed with the voluntary payment of the amount specified
above, in accordance with the provisions of article 85.2 cited, must do so
effective by depositing it in restricted account number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000
0000 opened in the name of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection in the entity
banking CAIXABANK, S.A., indicating in the concept the reference number of the
procedure that appears in the heading of this document and the cause, for
voluntary payment, reduction of the amount of the sanction. Also, you must send the
proof of entry to the General Subdirectorate of Inspection to proceed to close
The file.

By virtue of this, you are notified of the foregoing, and the procedure is made clear to you.
so that within TEN DAYS you can allege what you deem appropriate in your
defense and present the documents and information that it considers pertinent,
in accordance with article 89.2 of the LPACAP.

Paloma Alonso Garcia
INSPECTOR/INSTRUCTOR

926-050522

EXHIBIT

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

36/37

File Index PS_00379_2021

10-16-2019 Claim from A.A.A. 1
11-22-2019 Transfer claim to UNITED ANIF, S.L. 29
06-23-2020 Transfer claim 2 to MONEY GRAM SPAIN, S.A. 47
08-03-2020 Response to the request of MONEY GRAN SPAIN S. 64
04-12-2020 Admission to A.A.A. OF 67
01-05-2021 Response to the Mad 70 City Council request
10-12-2021 A. opening to B.B.B.80
06-01-2022 Notice p. tests to B.B.B.97
06-21-2022 Notice p. tests 2 at B.B.B.100
06-21-2022 Evidence to the claimant to A.A.A. 104
06-21-2022 Evidence request to MONEY GRAM INTERNATIO SRL at 107
06-29-2022 Response to B.B.B. 112
06-30-2022 Response to request from A.A.A. 130
07-18-2022 screenshot Money G 151
07-18-2022 web capture Money 158
07-18-2022 Diligence 2 159
>>

SECOND: On August 1, 2022, the claimed party has proceeded to pay
of the sanction in the amount of 1600 euros making use of the reduction foreseen in the
motion for a resolution transcribed above.

THIRD: The payment made entails the waiver of any action or resource in via
against the sanction, in relation to the facts referred to in the
resolution proposal.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), grants each
control authority and as established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), is competent to initiate and resolve
this procedure the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

II

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

37/37

Article 85 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common to Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), under the rubric
"Termination in sanctioning procedures" provides the following:

"1. Started a sanctioning procedure, if the offender acknowledges his responsibility,
the procedure may be resolved with the imposition of the appropriate sanction.

2. When the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature or it is possible to impose a
pecuniary sanction and another of a non-pecuniary nature, but the
inadmissibility of the second, the voluntary payment by the alleged perpetrator, in
any time prior to the resolution, will imply the termination of the procedure,
except in relation to the replacement of the altered situation or the determination of the
compensation for damages caused by the commission of the infringement.

3. In both cases, when the sanction is solely pecuniary in nature, the
competent body to resolve the procedure will apply reductions of, at least,
20% of the amount of the proposed sanction, these being cumulative with each other.
The aforementioned reductions must be determined in the notification of initiation
of the procedure and its effectiveness will be conditioned to the withdrawal or resignation of
any administrative action or recourse against the sanction.

The reduction percentage provided for in this section may be increased
regulations."

According to what was stated,
the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: TO DECLARE the termination of procedure PS/00379/2021, of
in accordance with the provisions of article 85 of the LPACAP.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure as prescribed by
the art. 114.1.c) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common of the Public Administrations, the interested parties may file an appeal
contentious-administrative before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-Administrative Jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

968-230522

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

