 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EDPB-EDPS 
Joint  Opinion 
03/2021 on the Proposal for a 
regulation  of  the  European 
Parliament  and  of 
the 
Council  on  European  data 
governance 
(Data 
Governance Act) 

Version 1.1 

 

 

 

Adopted 

1 

Version history 

Version 1.1  09 June 2021 

Minor editorial changes 

Version 1.0  10 March 2021 

Adoption of the Joint Opinion 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Adopted 

2 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1 

2 

3 

BACKGROUND ................................................................................................................................ 5 

SCOPE OF THE JOINT OPINION ....................................................................................................... 6 

ASSESSMENT .................................................................................................................................. 8 

3.1 

General remarks ...................................................................................................................... 8 

3.2 
General  issues  related  to  the  relationship  of  the  Proposal  with  Union  law  in  the  field  of 
personal data protection .................................................................................................................... 9 

3.3 

Re-use of certain categories of protected data held by public sector bodies ...................... 18 

3.3.1 

Relationship of the Proposal with the Open Data Directive and with the GDPR ......... 18 

3.3.2 

Article 5: conditions for re-use of data by public sector bodies ................................... 20 

3.3.3 

Article 5(11): re-use of “highly sensitive” non-personal data ....................................... 25 

3.3.4 

Article 6: fees for data re-use ....................................................................................... 25 

3.3.5 
Governance  and  institutional  aspects:  Article  7  (competent  bodies).  Article  8  (single 
information point). ....................................................................................................................... 26 

3.4 

Requirements applicable to data sharing service providers ................................................. 28 

3.4.1 
Data  intermediaries  under  Article  9(1)  (b):  intermediation  services  between  data 
subjects and potential data users. ............................................................................................... 31 

3.4.2 

Data intermediaries under Article 9(1) (c): ‘data cooperatives’ ................................... 33 

3.4.3 
Article 10: notification regime - general requirements to be eligible for registration - 
content of the notification; outcome (and timing) of the notification. Article 11: conditions for 
providing data sharing services .................................................................................................... 34 

3.4.4 
Articles 12 and 13: competent authorities and monitoring of compliance (with Articles 
10 and 11). .................................................................................................................................... 37 

3.5 

Data altruism ......................................................................................................................... 39 

3.5.1 

Interplay between data altruism and consent under the GDPR ................................... 39 

3.5.2 
Articles 16-17: registration regime - general requirements to be eligible for registration 
- content of the registration; outcome (and timing) of the registration; .................................... 42 

3.5.3 
Articles  18-19:  transparency  requirements  and  “specific  requirements  to  safeguard 
rights and interests of data subjects and legal entities as regards their data” ............................ 43 

Articles  20  and  21:  competent  authorities  for  registration  and  monitoring  of 
3.5.4 
compliance ................................................................................................................................... 45 

3.5.5 

Article 22: European data altruism consent form ......................................................... 46 

3.6 

International transfers of data: Article 5(9)-(13); recital 17, 19; Article 30 .......................... 46 

 

Adopted 

3 

Horizontal provisions on institutional settings; complaints; European Data Innovation Board 
3.7 
(EDIB) expert group; delegated acts; penalties, evaluation and review, amendments to the single 
digital gateway regulation, transitional measures and entry into force .......................................... 48 

3.7.1 

Article 23: requirements relating to competent authorities ........................................ 48 

3.7.2 

Article 24: complaints; Article 25: right to effective judicial remedy ........................... 49 

3.7.3 
Articles  26  and  27:  composition  and  tasks  of  the  European  Data  Innovation  Board 
Expert Group ................................................................................................................................ 49 

3.7.4 

Article 31: penalties for infringements of the Proposal, to be applied ........................ 51 

3.7.5 

Article 33: amendment to Regulation (EU) 2018/1724 ................................................ 51 

 

 

 

 

Adopted 

4 

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  and  the  European  Data  Protection 
Supervisor 

Having regard to Article 42(2) of the Regulation 2018/1725 of 23 October 2018 on the protection of 
natural  persons  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  by  the  Union  institutions,  bodies, 
offices  and  agencies  and  on  the  free  movement  of  such  data,  and  repealing  Regulation  (EC)  No 
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC (“EUDPR”), 

Having  regard  to  the  EEA  Agreement  and  in  particular  to  Annex  XI  and  Protocol  37  thereof,  as 
amended by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018, 

HAVE ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING JOINT OPINION 

1  BACKGROUND 

1. 

2. 

3. 

The Proposal for Data Governance Act (“the Proposal”) is enacted pursuant to the Communication “A 
European strategy for data” (“the Data Strategy”).1. 

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  (EDPB)  and  the  European  Data  Protection  Supervisor  (EDPS) 
notice  that,  according  to  the  Commission,  the  Data  Strategy  provides  that  “citizens  will  trust  and 
embrace data-driven innovation only if they are confident that any personal data sharing in the EU will 
be subject to full compliance with the EU’s strict data protection rules”2. 

As specified in its Explanatory Memorandum, the Proposal “aims to foster the availability of data for 
use by increasing trust in data intermediaries and by strengthening data-sharing mechanisms across 
the EU. The instrument would address the following situations: 

- Making public sector data available for re-use, in situations where such data is subject to rights of 
others. 

- Sharing of data among businesses, against remuneration in any form. 

- Allowing personal data to be used with the help of a ‘personal data-sharing intermediary’, designed 
to help individuals exercise their rights under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 

- Allowing data use on altruistic grounds”3. 

4.  When presenting the Proposal, the Commission has notably considered that “the new regulation will 
provide a good governance framework supporting the common European data spaces and will ensure 
that data can be made available voluntarily by data holders. It will complement the upcoming rules on 

                                                           

1 Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and 
Social Committee and the Committee of Regions  “A European strategy for data”, 19 of February  2020, COM 
(2020) 66 final. 
2 A European strategy for data, Introduction, page 1. 
3 Explanatory Memorandum, page 1. 

 

Adopted 

5 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 

10. 

11. 

12. 

high-value datasets under the Open Data Directive which will ensure access to certain datasets across 
the  EU  for  free,  in  machine-readable  format  and  through  standardised  Application  Programming 
Interfaces (APIs)”4. 

The  Data  Strategy  also  highlights  that  “The  availability  of  data  is  essential  for  training  artificial 
intelligence systems, with products and services rapidly moving from pattern recognition and insight 
generation to more sophisticated forecasting techniques and, thus, better decisions”5. 

As acknowledged in the Explanatory Memorandum of the Proposal, “the interplay with the legislation 
on personal data is particularly important. With the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and 
ePrivacy Directive, the EU has put in place a solid and trusted legal framework for the protection of 
personal data and a standard for the world”6. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  also  point  out  that  the  Proposal,  as  referred  to  in  the  Explanatory 
Memorandum,  “aims  at  facilitating  data  sharing  including  by  reinforcing  trust  in  data  sharing 
intermediaries  that  are  expected  to  be  used  in the  different  data  spaces.  It  does  not  aim  to  grant, 
amend or remove the substantial rights on access and use of data. This type of measures is envisaged 
for a potential Data Act (2021)”7. At the time of drafting this Joint Opinion, the aim and content of 
such Data Act are not yet available. 

 

2  SCOPE OF THE JOINT OPINION 

On  25  November  2020,  the  Commission  published  the  Proposal  for  a  regulation  of  the  European 
Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  European  data  governance  (“Data  Governance  Act”)  (“the 
Proposal”). 

On 25 November 2020, the Commission requested a Joint Opinion of the EDPB and the EDPS on the 
basis of Article 42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 (EUDPR) on the Proposal. 

The Proposal is of particular importance for the protection of individuals’ rights and freedoms with 
regard to the processing of personal data. The scope of this opinion is limited to the aspects of the 
Proposal related to the protection of personal data, which, as observed, represent a key -if not the 
most important- aspect of the Proposal. 

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS notice that recital (3) provides that “This Regulation is therefore 
without prejudice to Regulation (EU) 2016/679”. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  the  underlying  objective  of  reinforcing  trust  with  a  view  to 
facilitate data availability and benefit the digital economy in the EU is indeed grounded in the need to 
ensure  and  uphold  the  respect  and  application  of  the  EU  acquis  in  the  field  of  personal  data 

                                                           

4 https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_20_2103#European%20Data%20Spaces  
5 Data Strategy, pages 2 and 3. 
6 Explanatory Memorandum, page 1. 
7 Explanatory Memorandum, page 1. 

 

Adopted 

6 

13. 

14. 

15. 

16. 

protection. Applicable EU law in such field, and in particular Regulation EU 2016/679 (General Data 
Protection  Regulation,  GDPR),  shall  be  considered  as  a  prerequisite  on  which  further  legislative 
proposals  may  build  upon  without  affecting  or  interfering  with  the  relevant  existing  provisions, 
including when it comes to the competence of supervisory authorities and other governance aspects.8. 

In the view of the EDPB and the EDPS, it is therefore important to clearly avoid in the legal text of the 
Proposal any inconsistency and possible conflict with the GDPR. This not only for the sake of legal 
certainty, but also to avoid that the Proposal has the effect of directly or indirectly jeopardizing the 
fundamental right to the protection of personal data, as established under Article 16 of the Treaty on 
the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and Article 8 of the Charter of fundamental rights of 
the European Union. 

In particular, in this Joint Opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS point out to inconsistencies with the  EU 
data protection legislation (as well as with other EU legislation, such as the Open Data Directive) and 
to problems, relating for instance to legal certainty, that would arise from the entry into force of the 
current Proposal.  

Since the Proposal, as detailed in this Joint Opinion, raises a significant number of serious concerns, 
often intertwined, related to the protection of the fundamental right to the protection of personal 
data, it is not the aim of this Joint Opinion to provide an exhaustive list of issues to be addressed by 
the legislators, nor always alternative proposals or wording suggestions. Instead, this Joint Opinion 
aims at addressing the main criticalities of the Proposal. At the same time, the EDPB and the EDPS 
remain available to provide further clarifications and exchanges with the Commission. 

The EDPB and the EDPS are also aware  that the legislative process on the Proposal is ongoing and 
stress  their  availability  to  the  co-legislators  to  provide  further  advice  and  recommendations 
throughout  this  process,  to  ensure  in  particular:  legal  certainty  for  natural  persons,  economic 
operators and public authorities; due protection of personal data for  data subjects in line with the 
TFEU, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU and the data protection acquis; a sustainable digital 
environment including the necessary ‘checks and balances’. 

17. 

This call for the involvement of data protection authorities also relates, due to the possible important 
links with the Proposal9, to any forthcoming proposal for a European Data Act. 

                                                           

8 See EDPS Opinion 3/2020 on the European strategy for data, at paragraph 64: “Finally, the EDPS underlines 
that  in  the  context  of  future  governance  mechanisms  the  competences  of  the  independent  supervisory 
authorities  for  data  protection  must  be  properly  respected.  Moreover,  the  implementation  of  the  Strategy 
leading to wider use of data will require a significant increase of resources for DPAs and other public oversight 
bodies,  in  particular  in  terms  of  technical  expertise  and  capabilities.  Cooperation  and  joint  investigations 
between  all  relevant  public  oversight  bodies,  including  data  protection  supervisory  authorities,  should  be 
encouraged.” 
9 The  Impact  Assessment  accompanying  the  Proposal,  SWD  (2020)  295  final,  specifies  at  page  6  that  (bold 
added): “The current initiative is a first step in the two-step approach announced in the European Strategy for 
Data.  The  initiative  will  address  the  urgent  need  to  facilitate  data  sharing  through  an  enabling  governance 
framework. In a second step, the Commission will address issues about who controls or ‘owns’ the data, i.e. 
the material rights on who can access and use what data under which circumstances. The introduction of such 
rights  will  be  examined  in  the  context  of  the  Data  Act  (2021).  Diverging  interests  of  the  stakeholders  and 

 

Adopted 

7 

18. 

19. 

3  ASSESSMENT 

3.1  General remarks 

The EDPB and the EDPS acknowledge the legitimate objective of fostering the availability of data for 
use by increasing trust in data intermediaries and by strengthening data-sharing mechanisms across 
the EU, while highlighting that the protection of personal data is an essential and integral element of 
the trust individuals and organizations should have in the development of the digital economy. The 
proposal  for  a  regulation  on  European  Data  Governance  (Data  Governance  Act)  is  also  to  be 
considered in the light of the increased reliance of the digital economy on the processing of personal 
data  and  of  the  development  of  new  technologies  such  as  large  data  set  analytics  and  artificial 
intelligence.  

The EDPB and the EDPS underline that, whereas the GDPR was built upon the need to reinforce the 
fundamental  right  to  data  protection,  the  Proposal  clearly  focuses  on  unleashing  the  economic 
potential of data re-use and sharing. Thus, the Proposal intends to “improve the conditions for data 
sharing in the internal market”, as stated in Recital (3). However, the EDPB and the EDPS note that 
the Proposal, also having regard to the Impact Assessment accompanying it, does not duly take into 
account the need to ensure and guarantee the level of protection of personal data provided under 
EU  law.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  this  policy trend  toward  a  data-driven  economy 
framework without 
protection 
aspects raises serious concerns from a fundamental rights viewpoint. In this regard, the EDPB and 
the  EDPS  emphasise  that  any  proposal,  including  upcoming  initiatives  related  to  data, such  as  the 
European Data Act, that may have an impact on the processing of personal data, must ensure and 
uphold the respect and application of the EU acquis in the field of personal data protection. 

consideration 

sufficient 

personal 

data 

of 

a 

20. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  furthermore  highlight  that  the  European  Union  model  relies  on  the 
mainstreaming of its values and fundamental rights within its policy developments, and that the 
GDPR must be considered as a foundation on which to build a European data governance model. As 
already stated in various policy contexts, such as the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the EU 
legal framework in the field of personal data protection shall be considered as an enabler, rather 
than an obstacle, to the development of a data economy that corresponds to the Union values and 
principles. 

21. 

The EDPB and the EDPS trusts this Joint Opinion will inform the co-legislators in ensuring the adoption 
of a legislative instrument which is fully compliant with the EU acquis in the field of personal data 
protection and therefore increases trust by upholding the level of protection provided by EU law under 
the supervision of the independent Data Protection Authorities established under Article 16(2) TFEU.  

 

                                                           

different views on what is fair in this respect make these issues subject to intense debate, which warrants taking 
more time.” 
 

8 

Adopted 

3.2  General issues related to the relationship of the Proposal with Union law in the 

field of personal data protection  

22. 

23. 

The Proposal contains several references to compliance with the GDPR – which lays down the rules 
relating to the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and to the 
free movement of personal data (see, among others, recital (3); recital (28) of the Proposal: “when the 
data  sharing  service  providers  are  data  controllers  or  processors  in  the  sense  of  Regulation  (EU) 
2016/679 they are bound by the rules of that Regulation.”). 

The EDPB and the EDPS consider that, in light of the scope of the processing of personal data to which 
the  Proposal  makes  reference,  recital  3  should  also  include  a  reference  to  Directive  (EC)  2002/58 
(“ePrivacy Directive”), as it is also part of the EU acquis in the field of personal data protection with 
which the Proposal shall be in compliance, consistent. 

24.  More in general, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that both the spirit and the letter of the Proposal 
must not undermine the level of protection and ensure full consistency with all the principles and 
rules established by the GDPR to effectively guarantee the fundamental rights to the protection of 
personal data provided under Article 8 of the Charter and Article 16 TFEU. 

25.  Having regard to the above, as referred to in the following paragraphs of this Joint Opinion, the EDPB 
and the EDPS consider that the Proposal raises significant inconsistencies with the GDPR, as well as 
with other Union law10, in particular as regards the following five aspects: 

(a) Subject matter and scope of the Proposal 

(b) Definitions/terminology used in the Proposal; 

(c) Legal basis for the processing of personal data; 

                                                           

10 Although this observation does not strictly relate to the processing of personal data, the EDPB and the EDPS 
also notice possible confusion and ambiguities as to how the Proposal will apply together with the Regulation 
(EU) 2018/1807 on a framework for the free flow of non-personal data in the European Union. In this regard, 
it should be pointed out  that the definitions of ‘processing’, ‘user’, ‘professional user’, and ‘data  localization 
requirement’, as well as to other provisions of the Regulation on non-personal data (see for instance Article 6, 
Porting of data), might be not consistent or however overlapping with the definitions and the other provisions 
contained in the Proposal. Moreover, with regards to the re-use of data held by public sector bodies which are 
protected on grounds of statistical confidentiality, it should be pointed out that, despite the principle stated by 
Article 3(3) of the Proposal, the conditions for re-use defined in Article 5(3-4) are not in line with the sectoral 
rules established at EU level for the protection of confidential data used for statistical purposes (see Regulation 
(EC) No 223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2009 on European statistics and 
repealing  Regulation  (EC,  Euratom)  No  1101/2008  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  on  the 
transmission of data subject to statistical confidentiality to the Statistical Office of the European Communities, 
Council  Regulation  (EC)  No  322/97  on  Community  Statistics,  and  Council  Decision  89/382/EEC,  Euratom 
establishing  a  Committee  on  the  Statistical  Programmes  of  the  European  Communities  and  the  Commission 
Regulation  (EU)  No  557/2013  of  17  June  2013  implementing  Regulation  (EC)  No  223/2009  of  the  European 
Parliament and of the Council on European Statistics as regards access to confidential data for scientific purposes 
and repealing Commission Regulation (EC) No 831/2002. 
 
 

9 

Adopted 

(d) Blurring of the distinction between (processing of) personal and non-personal data (and unclear 
relationship of the Proposal with the Regulation on free flows of non-personal data); 

(e) Governance/tasks and powers of competent bodies and authorities to be designated in accordance 
with the Proposal, having regard to the tasks and powers of data protection authorities responsible 
for  the  protection  of  the  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  of  natural  persons  in  relation  to  the 
processing of personal data as well as for facilitating the free flow of personal data within the Union. 

 

A.  Subject matter and scope 

26.  According to Article 1(2) of the Proposal: “This Regulation is without prejudice to specific provisions in 
other  Union  legal  acts  regarding  access  to  or  re-use  of  certain  categories  of  data,  or requirements 
relating to processing of personal or non-personal data. 

Where a sector-specific Union legal act requires public sector bodies, providers of data sharing services 
or  registered  entities  providing  data  altruism  services  to  comply  with  specific  additional  technical, 
administrative  or  organisational  requirements,  including  through  an  authorisation  or  certification 
regime, those provisions of that sector-specific Union legal act shall also apply.” 

27. 

For the sake of clarity, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend introducing in Article 1 of the Proposal a 
provision clearly and unambiguously stating that the Proposal leaves intact and in no way affects 
the  level  of  protection  of  individual  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  under  the 
provisions of Union and national law and that the Proposal does not alter any obligations and rights 
set out in the data protection legislation. This addition would provide for better legal certainty and 
guarantees that fundamental right to the protection of personal data is not undermined. 

28. 

In  this  regard  it  is  unclear  why  a  similar  specification  is  contained  in  Article  9(2)  of  the  Proposal 
referring to data sharing service providers11 and not (mutatis mutandis, that is referring also to public 
sector bodies, re-users, data altruism organisations) as a horizontal provision under Article 1 of the 
Proposal. 

 

B.  The definitions of the Proposal are inconsistent with the definitions and key concepts of 

the GDPR, and therefore need to be amended or clarified 

29. 

The definition of “data holder” provided under Article 2(5) of the Proposal: “the legal person or data 
subject who, in accordance with applicable Union or national law, has the right to grant access or to 
share  certain  personal  or  non-personal  data  under  its  control”  is  not  in  line  with  the  overarching 
principles of the GDPR, as well as with the letter of the GDPR. 

30. 

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS note that legal uncertainties may arise from the fact that the 
GDPR does not mention the data subject’s right to grant access or to share his/her personal data with 

                                                           

11 Article 9(2) states: “This Chapter shall be without prejudice to the application of other Union and national law 
to  providers  of  data  sharing  services,  including  powers  of  supervisory  authorities  to  ensure  compliance  with 
applicable law, in particular as regard the protection of personal data and competition law”. 

 

Adopted 

10 

third  parties  and  even  less  so  an  equivalent  right  for  the  legal  person  which  seems  possible  to 
extrapolate from the definition of “data holder”. Rather, the GDPR guarantees to every individual the 
right to the protection of personal data concerning him or her, which refers to a comprehensive set 
of rules for the processing of personal data that are binding for each entity processing the data (data 
controller/joint controller) or processing the data on behalf of the data controller (processor)12. 

31. 

In this regard, the EDPS and the EDPB believe that rather than stating that a legal person has the 
right to grant access to or share personal data, it would be more appropriate referring to whether 
and under which conditions a certain processing of personal data can be performed or not. 

32.  A clarification that the EDPB and the EDPS would like to make is that both the access to and the sharing 

of personal data constitute processing of personal data pursuant to Article 4(2) of the GDPR. 

33.  According to the data protection legislation, the processing of personal data shall be lawful if the data 
subject (the identified or identifiable natural person to whom personal data relate) has given consent 
to the processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes or if another adequate 
legal basis under Article 6 GDPR can be validly applied. 

34. 

35. 

The aforesaid considerations are made in the light in particular of Article 8 of the Charter: “1.  Everyone 
has the right to the protection of personal data concerning him or her. 2. Such data must be processed 
fairly for specified purposes and on the basis of the consent of the person concerned or some other 
legitimate basis laid down by law.” 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  have  concerns  also  as  regards  the  wording  of  recital  (14)  of  the Proposal 
(underline added): “Companies and data subjects should be able to trust that the re-use of certain 
categories  of  protected  data,  which  are  held  by the public  sector, will take  place  in  a  manner  that 
respects their rights and interests.”; Article 11(6), referring to “guarantees in place that allow data 
holders and data users to obtain access to their data in case of insolvency”; as well as of Article 19, 
“Specific requirements to safeguard rights and interests of data subjects and legal entities as regards 
their data”, which refers under Article 19(1)(a) to: “the purposes of general interest for which it [any 
entity entered in the register of recognised data altruism organisations] permits the processing of their 
data [of data holders] by a data user”. 

36. 

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS remark that rights and interests of the data subject with regard 
to his or her personal data, on the one hand, and the right and interests of legal persons with regard 

                                                           

12 See also recital (6) and (7) of the GDPR (bold added): 
“(6)  Rapid  technological  developments  and  globalisation  have  brought  new  challenges  for  the  protection  of 
personal data. The scale of the collection and sharing of personal data has increased significantly. Technology 
allows both private companies and public authorities to make use of personal data on an unprecedented scale 
in order to pursue their activities. Natural persons increasingly make personal information available publicly and 
globally. Technology has transformed both the economy and social life, and should further facilitate the free 
flow of personal data within the Union and the transfer to third countries and international organisations, while 
ensuring a high level of the protection of personal data. 
(7) Those developments require a strong and more coherent data protection framework in the Union, backed 
by strong enforcement, given the importance of creating the trust that will allow the digital economy to develop 
across the internal market. Natural persons should have control of their own personal data. Legal and practical 
certainty for natural persons, economic operators and public authorities should be enhanced.” 

 

Adopted 

11 

to the information relating to them, on the other hand, are not of the same kind (the latter does not 
concern human dignity or the right to privacy and to data protection, but rather industrial property 
rights, such as trade secrets, patents and trademarks). Therefore, given the aforesaid heterogeneity, 
the mentioned provisions would be not only not conceptually ‘solid’, but also difficult to implement 
and such as to raise legal uncertainties. For instance, in case of insolvency (referred to under Article 
11(6)), the guarantees in place  to allow  data holders to obtain access to non-personal data would 
differ  substantially  in  practice  from  conditions  and  limits  for the  continued  processing  of  personal 
data. These are indeed different issues that require different solutions13, and the reference to both 
under the obligation for the data sharing service provider to ensure continuity of provision of services 
(including the sharing of personal data) is confusing at least, if not manifestly inconsistent with the 
GDPR. 

37. 

The definition of ‘data user’14 under Article 2(6) is also a new definition introduced by the Proposal, 
whose interplay -in case of personal data- with the definition of recipient15 under Article 4(9) of the 
GDPR is unclear. We note in this regard that Article 11(1) of the Proposal lays down: “The provider 
may not use the data for which it provides services for other purposes than to put them at the disposal 
of data users [...]” This provision, read in conjunction with the definition of ‘data user’, gives rise to 
legal  uncertainty,  due  to  different  notions  of  ‘recipient’  under  GDPR  and  ‘data  user’  under  the 
Proposal,  which  would  lead  to  difficulties  of  practical  application.  Moreover,  the  definition  under 
Article 2(6) might be misleading if read as referring to a natural or legal person that is authorised (has 
the right?) to use personal data for commercial and non-commercial purposes. The reference to and 
the meaning (its legal source and effect) of such “authorization” is also unclear. 

38. 

In addition, the interplay between the notion of data user as “natural or legal person [authorised to 
use data for commercial and non-commercial purposes]” and the notions of controller, joint controller 
or  processor  under  the  GDPR  is  also  unclear.  Furthermore,  the  Proposal  refers  to  a  possible 
qualification  as  controller  or  processor  and  their  obligations  under  the  GDPR  for  the  data  sharing 
service providers16, but not for the data user or for the data altruism organisations (despite the fact 
that the latter can also be controller, joint controller or processor under the GDPR).  

39.  More  in  general,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  underline  that  the  Proposal  should  define  the  roles  in 
respect of personal data protection law (data controller, processor or joint controller) of each type 
of ‘actor’ (data sharing service provider, data altruism organisation, data user) not only to avoid 

                                                           

13 For instance, in case of insolvency, attention should be paid to the fact that, as a result, there is a change in 
the  controllership  of  the  data  processing.  The  new  controller  shall  establish  in  particular  what  data  can  be 
processed; identify the purposes for which the data was originally obtained; establish the lawful basis for sharing 
the  data;  ensure  compliance  with  the  data  protection  principles,  in  particular  lawfulness,  fairness  and 
transparency; inform data subjects about changes relating to the processing of their data, and consider that data 
subjects may exercise their right to object. 
14 Article 2(6) of the Proposal: “‘Data user’ means a natural or legal person who has lawful access to certain 
data and is authorised to use that data for commercial or non-commercial purposes.” 
15 According  to  the  definition  provided  in  the  GDPR,  under  Article  4(9),  “‘recipient’  means  a  natural  or  legal 
person, public authority, agency or another body, to which the personal data are disclosed, whether a third party 
or not [..]”. 
16 See recital 28 “where the data sharing service providers are data controllers or processors in the sense of the 
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 they are bound by the rules of that Regulation.” 
 

12 

Adopted 

40. 

41. 

42. 

ambiguity about the applicable GDPR obligations, but also to improve the readability of the legal 
text. 

Similar issues,  namely the unclear relationship with the definitions and rules provided under the 
GDPR, relate to the definition of ‘data sharing’ under Article 2(7) of the Proposal (referring inter alia 
to the ‘joint or individual use of the shared data’). Insofar as it relates to personal data, the joint use 
of  personal  data  (by  both  the  data  holder,  legal  person,  and  a  data  user)  directly  or  through  an 
intermediary, is also confusing at least. 

Similar concerns - as further detailed below - relate to the term “permission [from legal entities to the 
reuse of data]”, for which however a definition is not provided in the Proposal. 

The  definition of  ‘metadata’  in  Article  2(4)  is  also  problematic  under  the  personal  data  protection 
viewpoint, since it refers to “data collected on any activity of a natural or legal person for the purposes 
of the provision of a data sharing service, including the date, time and geolocation data, duration of 
activity, connections to other natural or legal persons established by the person who uses the service”. 
Such data may include personal data. 

43.  As  further  detailed  in  this  Joint  Opinion,  having  regard  to  Article  11(2),  the  Proposal  may  be 
interpreted as creating a legal basis for the processing of metadata. Article 11 of the Proposal seems 
to lay down that, as a condition for providing the data sharing service, the provider should indeed be 
able  to  use  the  aforesaid  metadata  “for  the  development  of  that  [the  data  sharing]  service”.  No 
reference is made in the legal text among others to the need for the data sharing service provider to 
rely upon an appropriate legal basis for processing of personal data under Article 6(1) of the GDPR. 

44.  More in general, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that since the Proposal is, as made explicit in the 
Proposal itself, without prejudice to the GDPR, the definitions envisaged by the GDPR should apply 
and they should not be implicitly amended or removed by the Proposal and the new definitions, as 
far as they relate to the processing of personal data, should not, as ‘a matter of fact’, contain ‘rules’ 
that are inconsistent with the spirit and the letter of the GDPR. 

45. 

This specification is particularly important due to the cumulative effect in terms of lack of clarity and 
legal uncertainties arising from the Proposal where more than one unclear definition is contained in 
the same provision (see for instance Article 7(2)(c) of the Proposal, referring to “obtaining consent or 
permission by re-users for re-use for altruistic and other purposes in line with specific decisions of 
data holders”). 

46. 

In light of the above, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend clarifying and modifying the Proposal in 
order to ensure that -insofar as personal data are concerned- no inconsistencies with the definitions 
and concepts of the GDPR remain. 

 

C.  The  Proposal  should  better  specify,  to  avoid  legal  uncertainties,  the  applicable  legal 

basis in the GDPR for the processing of personal data 

47. 

The EDPB and the EDPS notice that the Proposal makes reference to “the permission of data holders” 
for the use of data under several provisions: 

 

Adopted 

13 

- Article 5(6): “the public sector body shall support re-users in seeking consent of the data subjects 
and/or permission from the legal entities whose rights and interests may be affected by such re-use”, 
specified under recital (11): “The public sector bodies, where relevant, should facilitate the re-use of 
data on the basis of consent of data subjects or permissions of legal persons on the re-use of data 
pertaining to them through adequate technical means.” 

- Article 7(2)(c): “assisting the public sector bodies, where relevant, in obtaining consent or permission 
by re-users for re-use for altruistic and other purposes in line with specific decisions of data holders 
[..]”; 

-  Article  11(11):  “where  a  provider  provides  tools  for  obtaining  consent  from  data  subjects  or 
permissions to process data made available by legal persons”; 

-  Article  19(3):  “Where  an  entity  entered  in  the  register  of  recognised  data  altruism  organisations 
provides tools for obtaining consent from data subjects or permissions to process data made available 
by legal persons”, specified under recital (36) “Legal persons could give permission to the processing 
of their non-personal data for a range of purposes not defined at the moment of giving the permission.” 

The EDPB and the EDPS notice in this regard that it is unclear in most cases whether the object of the 
permission would be the re-use of personal or non-personal data or both. 

The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  also  remark  that  in  case  of processing of  personal  data  the  “permission” 
referred  to  in  the  Proposal  cannot  replace  the  necessity  of  one  appropriate  legal  ground  under 
Article 6(1) of the GDPR for the lawful processing of personal data. In other words, according to the 
GDPR the processing of personal data shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the 
legal basis under Article 6(1) of the GDPR applies. The Proposal should clearly specify this aspect to 
avoid any ambiguity. 

Indeed, even interpreting the notion of ‘permission’, (to be however defined in the legal text of the 
Proposal) as ‘a decision (a business choice) by a legal person to permit the processing of personal data 
where such legal person has a legal basis under Article 6(1) of the GDPR to permit such processing’, it 
has to be noted that the literal reading of some provisions of the Proposal does not seem to support 
this GDPR-compliant interpretation, since they refer for instance to “Where the re-use of data cannot 
be granted in accordance with the obligations laid down in paragraphs 3 to 5 and there is no other 
legal  basis  for  transmitting  the  data  under  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679,  the  public  sector  body  shall 
support re-users  in seeking consent  of the data subjects and/or  permission from  the legal entities” 
(Article 5(6) of the Proposal)17. In these cases, ‘permission’ seems to be alternative to at least one 
(consent of the data subject) of the legal basis provided under Article 6 of the GDPR. 

48. 

49. 

50. 

51.  Recital 6 of the Proposal is also unclear with regard to the appropriate legal basis for the processing 
of personal data,  since  it refers to an obligation “in general” to rely on the legal basis provided in 
Article 6 of the GDPR for the processing of personal data18.  

                                                           

17 See also Article 7(2)(c); Article 11(11); Article 19(3) of the Proposal referred to above 
18 In  particular,  recital  6  of  the  Proposals  states  that  (bold  added):  “In  general,  insofar  as  personal  data  are 
concerned, the processing of personal data should rely upon one or more of the grounds for processing provided 
in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.” 
 

14 

Adopted 

52. 

53. 

From another standpoint, as a further detailed in this Opinion, the EDPB and the  EDPS remark the 
need to clarify the relationship between the different scenarios envisaged under the Proposal and 
Article 6(4) of the GDPR, regulating the situation where the processing of personal data for a purpose 
other than that for which the personal data have been collected is not based on the data subject’s 
consent. 

To that effect, in light of the objective and content of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS consider 
that  the  Proposal  cannot  be  invoked  as  Union  law  constituting  a  necessary  and  proportionate 
measure in a democratic society to safeguard the objectives referred to in Article 23(1) of the GDPR 
in order to ground the processing for a purpose other than that for which the personal data has 
been initially collected, where such processing is not based on consent, as per Article 6(4) of the 
GDPR.  

54.  Also in light of the above, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend specifying in the legal text of the 
Proposal that insofar as personal data are concerned, their processing must always be based on an 
adequate legal basis under Article 6 of the GDPR. 

55.  As an example of possible inconsistency relating to the legal basis for the processing of personal data, 
we point out to the provision under Article 11(2) of the Proposal, according to which “the metadata 
collected on the basis of the data sharing offered may be used [only] for the development of the data 
sharing services”. In this regard, we recall that metadata referred to in the Proposal19 can constitute 
information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person and in this case must be processed 
in accordance with data  protection rules and, in particular, those concerning the  legal basis of the 
processing.  However,  as  referred  to  in  paragraph  51  of  this  Opinion,  this  essential  aspect  is  not 
addressed by the Proposal. 

56.  On  this  matter,  as  a  broader  observation,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  the  aforesaid 
provision, as well as any other provision of the Proposal, does not provide a self-standing legal basis 
for the re-use of personal data by data users and for the processing activities performed by providers 
of data sharing services or by data altruism organisations, due to the fact that it does not fulfil the 
criteria under Article 6(3) for the processing referred to in point (c) and (e) of Article 6(1)20 of the 
GDPR. 

                                                           

19 Under Article 2(4) of the Proposal “’metadata’ means data collected on any activity of a natural or legal person 
for  the  purposes  of  the  provision  of  a  data  sharing  service,  including  the  date,  time  and  geolocation  data, 
duration  of  activity,  connections  to  other  natural  or  legal  persons  established  by  the  person  who  uses  the 
service.” 
20 “3. The basis for the processing referred to in point (c) and (e) of paragraph 1 shall be laid down by: 
(a) Union law; or (b) Member State law to which the controller is subject. 
The purpose of the processing shall be determined in that legal basis or, as regards the processing referred to in 
point (e) of paragraph 1, shall be necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in 
the exercise of official authority vested in the controller. That legal basis may contain specific provisions to adapt 
the  application  of  rules  of  this  Regulation,  inter  alia:  the  general  conditions  governing  the  lawfulness  of 
processing by the controller; the types of data which are subject to the processing; the data subjects concerned; 
the entities to, and the purposes for which, the personal data may be disclosed; the purpose limitation; storage 
periods; and processing operations and processing procedures, including measures to  ensure lawful and fair 
processing such as those for other specific processing situations as provided for in Chapter IX. The Union or the 

 

Adopted 

15 

 

D.  Blurring of the distinction between (processing of) personal and non-personal data and 
unclear relationship of the Proposal with the Regulation on free flows of non-personal 
data 

57.  As a general remark, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that a main criticality of the Proposal, having 
regard to the protection of personal data, possibly at the origin of the aforesaid incompatibilities or at 
least  ambiguity  of  the  legal  text,  is  the  blurring  of  the  distinction  between  the  processing  of  non-
personal data, as regulated for certain aspects under Regulation (EU) 2018/1807 of 14 November 2018 
on a framework for the free flow of non-personal data in the European Union (“Regulation on the free 
flow of non-personal data)”21, and the processing of personal data, the latter regulated under the data 
protection acquis and inspired by different principles. 

58. 

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that the distinction between categories of personal 
and non-personal data is difficult to apply in practice. Indeed, in practice, from a combination of non-
personal data  it is possible to infer or generate  personal data, i.e. data relating to an identified or 
identifiable  individual22,  especially  when  non-personal  data  are  the  result  of  the  anonymisation  of 
personal data and thus information originally related to natural persons. In addition, in the scenarios 
envisaged by the Proposal of increased availability, re-use and sharing of information, with a view to 
“allowing  ‘Big  Data’  pattern  detection  or  machine  learning” 23 ,  the  more  non-personal  data  are 
combined  with  other  available  information,  the  more  difficult  it  will  be  to  ensure  anonymisation 
because of the increased re-identification risk for data subjects. Consequently, having this scenario in 
mind, the data subjects’ fundamental rights to privacy and data protection should be ensured in any 
case in the different contexts envisaged by the Proposal. 

59.  At the same time, there might be cases of non-personal data, to which the GDPR does not apply, that 
since their origin, do not relate to naturals persons. For instance, it is the case of non-personal data 
from  vibration  sensors  in  industrial  machinery  combined  with  other  non-personal  data,  e.g.  the 
geolocation of the machinery. Such non-personal data does not need the same level of safeguards 
than non-personal data that are the result of the anonymisation of personal data, as only the latter 
(likewise pseudonymised data) are likely to be exposed to the risk of re-identification.  

60. 

To avoid confusion as to how the Proposal would apply ‘together with the GDPR’, the EDPB and the 
EDPS  recommend  reworking  the  Proposal  taking  better  into  account  the  distinction  between 
personal and non-personal data as well among different types of non-personal data. 

                                                           

Member  State  law  shall  meet  an  objective  of  public  interest  and  be  proportionate  to  the  legitimate  aim 
pursued.” 
21 Regulation  (EU)  2018/1807  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of  14  November  2018  on  a 
framework for the free flow of non-personal data in the European Union (Text with EEA relevance.), OJ L 303, 
28.11.2018, p. 59–68. 
22 See EDPS Opinion 3/2020 on the European strategy for data at para 30. 
23 Explanatory Memorandum, page 3. 

 

Adopted 

16 

61. 

Therefore, notwithstanding the concerns already expressed by the EDPS with regard to the concept 
of mixed dataset and to “inextricably linked” personal and non-personal data24, the EDPB and the EDPS 
recall that, according to Article 2(2) of the Regulation on the free flow of non-personal data: “In the 
case of a data set composed of both personal and non-personal data, this Regulation applies to the 
non-personal  data  part  of  the  data  set.  Where  personal  and  non-personal  data  in  a  data  set  are 
inextricably linked, this Regulation shall not prejudice the application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.” 
Consequently,  a  mixed  dataset  will  as  a  rule  be  subject  to  the  obligations  of  data  controllers  and 
processors and the data subject’s rights established by the GDPR.  This consideration is particularly 
relevant in the context of the Proposal, since it is possible that in most cases datasets shared through 
a data sharing service provider or a data altruism organisation would also contain personal data. Since 
a ‘third category’ between personal and non-personal data does not exist, this would not change the 
nature and the ‘legal regime’ of the dataset as personal data25. 

62. 

In the light of the above, the EDPB and the EDPS point out to the risk that the Proposal creates a 
parallel set of rules, which are not consistent with the GDPR, nor with the Regulation on the free 
flow of non-personal data, thus undermining it and causing difficulties of practical application. 

 

E.  Governance/tasks and powers of competent bodies and authorities to be designated in 
accordance with the Proposal and tasks and powers of the data protection authorities 

63. 

The Proposal foresees the designation by Member States of competent bodies to support the public 
sector bodies which grant access to the re-use of data (Chapter II of the Proposal) and the designation 
of  competent  authorities  to  monitor  the  compliance  with  the  provisions  related  to  data  sharing 
services and data altruism (Chapters III and IV of the Proposal).  

64.  As a broader remark, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion that, since many of the tasks of the 
competent  bodies  and  authorities  under  the  Proposal  relate  to  the  processing  of  personal  data, 
there  is  a  risk  of  interferences  by  the  competent  bodies  and  authorities  designated  under  the 
Proposal with the competence and tasks of independent data protection authorities. Therefore, the 
designation of competent authorities/bodies other than data protection authorities could lead to 
real  complexity  for  digital  players  and  data  subjects,  and  also  affect  consistency  in  terms  of 
monitoring the application of the provisions of the GDPR. The designation of competent bodies and 
authorities being left at the discretion of Member States, there may also be a risk of inconsistency 
and divergence in regulatory approaches across the Union. 

                                                           

24 See the Comments of the EDPS on a Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 
on a framework for the free-flow of non-personal data in the European Union issued on the 8th June 2018 at 
https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/18-06-08-
edps_formal_comments_freeflow_non_personal_data_en.pdf. 
25 See also Communication from the Commission to the Council and to the European Parliament, Guidance on 
the Regulation on a framework for the free flow of non-+persona data in the European Union, at: 
https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/guidance-regulation-framework-free-flow-non-personal-
data-european-union 
 

 

Adopted 

17 

 

3.3  Re-use of certain categories of protected data held by public sector bodies 

3.3.1 Relationship of the Proposal with the Open Data Directive and with the GDPR 

65.  While  the  Explanatory  Memorandum  states  that  the  Proposal  “complements  the  Directive  (EU) 
2019/1024 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on open data and the re-
use of public sector information (Open Data Directive)26”, recital (5) further specifies that “Directive 
(EU) 2019/1024 as well as sector-specific legislation ensure that the public sector makes more of the 
data it produces easily available for use and re-use. However, certain categories of data (commercially 
confidential  data,  data  subject  to  statistical  confidentiality,  data  protected  by  intellectual  property 
rights of third parties, including trade secrets and personal data not accessible on the basis of specific 
national or Union legislation, such as Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Directive (EU) 2016/680) in public 
databases  is  often  not  made  available,  not  even  for  research  or  innovative  activities.  Due  to  the 
sensitivity of this data, certain technical and legal procedural requirements must be met before they 
are  made  available,  in  order  to  ensure  the  respect  of  rights  others  have  over  such  data.  Such 
requirements are usually time- and knowledge-intensive to fulfil. This has led to the underutilisation of 
such data. While some Member States are setting up structures, processes and sometimes legislate to 
facilitate this type of re-use, this is not the case across the Union.” 

66. 

The EDPB and the EDPS observe that, despite the aforesaid specifications, the interface of the Proposal 
with the “Open Data Directive” seems unclear. In particular, there might be legal uncertainty on the 
extended re-use of public sector information, which, according to Article 3 (Categories of data) of the 
Proposal, would apply to: 

“[..]data held by public sector bodies which are protected on grounds of: 

(a) commercial confidentiality; 

(b) statistical confidentiality; 

(c) protection of intellectual property rights of third parties; 

(d) protection of personal data.” 

67. 

The  Explanatory  Memorandum  to  the  Proposal 27  does  not  sufficiently  clarify  the  scope  of  such 
extended re-use and the interplay of the Proposal with the Open Data Directive. Moreover, it puts 
under the same ‘umbrella’ (as “respect of rights of others”, which is inappropriate having regard to 

                                                           

26 OJ L 172, 26.6.2019, p. 56–83. 
27 See at page 7: “Chapter II creates a mechanism for re-using certain categories of protected public sector data, 
which is conditional on the respect of rights of others (notably on grounds of protection of personal data, but 
also  protection  of  intellectual  property  rights  and  commercial  confidentiality).  This  mechanism  is  without 
prejudice to sector-specific EU legislation on access to and the re-use of this data. The re-use of such data falls 
outside the scope of Directive (EU) 2019/1024 (Open Data Directive). Provisions under this Chapter do not create 
right to re-use such data, but provide for a set of harmonized basic conditions under which the reuse of such data 
may be allowed (e.g. the requirement of non-exclusivity).” 
 

18 

Adopted 

the  protection  of  personal  data)  “protection  of  personal  data,  but  also  protection  of  intellectual 
property rights and commercial confidentiality”. 

68. 

It  can  be  argued  that  the  wording  “data  held  by  public  sector  bodies  which  are  protected  on  the 
grounds of”, among others “protection of personal data” (Article 3, letter (d)) is at the same time: 

- regrettable, since it suggests the idea of data protection regulation as impeding the free movement 
of personal data, rather than laying down the rules of free flow of personal data while protecting the 
rights and interests of the persons concerned; and 

-  partially  inaccurate,  since  the  Open  Data  Directive,  rather  than  excluding  personal  data  from  its 
scope28, provides, under Article 1(2)(h), that [the Open Data Directive does not apply to] “documents, 
access to which is excluded or restricted by virtue of the access regimes on grounds of protection of 
personal data, and parts of documents accessible by virtue of those regimes which contain personal 
data the re-use of which has been defined by law as being incompatible with the law concerning the 
protection  of  individuals  with  regard  to  the  processing  of  personal  data  or  as  undermining  the 
protection  of  privacy  and  the  integrity  of  the  individual,  in  particular  in  accordance  with  Union  or 
national law regarding the protection of personal data”29. 

69. 

This last aspect is however specified under recital 7 of the Proposal30. In this regard, the EDPB and the 
EDPS wonder why this important issue (as well as many others concerning the protection of personal 
data) is included in a recital, but not in the substantive part of the Proposal. 

70.  Moreover, pursuant to Article 3(1) of the Open Data Directive, personal data that do not fall under 
this exception, being freely accessible according to the Union or national access regimes and re-usable 
for compatible uses without undermining the protection of privacy and the integrity of the individual, 
are  within  the  scope  of  the  Directive  and  can  be  made  available  for  re-use  in  accordance  to  the 
conditions  set  out  in  the  same  Directive  as  well  as  in  compliance  to  the  requirements  of  data 
protection law . Indeed, as stated in recital 154 of the GDPR, the EU legislation on the re-use of public 
sector information “leaves intact and in no way affects the level of protection of natural persons with 
regard to the processing of personal data under the provisions of Union and Member State law, and in 
particular  does  not  alter  the  obligations  and  rights  set  out  in  [the  GDPR]”.  To  this  effect,  the  EU 
legislator when establishing new principles and rules for the re-use of public sector information should 
provide for the necessary reconciliation of such re-use with the right to the protection of personal 
data pursuant to the GDPR31. 

71.  Consequently, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that the rules of the Open Data Directive along with 
those of the GDPR provide already for mechanisms allowing the sharing of personal data held by 

                                                           

28 See Article 1 of the Open Data Directive. 
29 See also in this regard, recital 52 and 53 as well as Articles 1(4) and 10 of the Open Data Directive, the latter 
with specific reference to research data. 
30 “The data covered by this Regulation fall outside the scope of Directive (EU) 2019/1024 that excludes data 
subject to commercial and statistical confidentiality and data for which third parties have intellectual property 
rights. Personal data fall outside scope of Directive (EU) 2019/1024 insofar as the access regime excludes or 
restricts access to such data for reasons of privacy and the integrity of the individual, in particular in accordance 
with data protection rules.” (emphasis added). 
31 See recital 154 as well as Article 86 of the GDPR with specific reference to Union and Member State law on 
public access to official documents 
 

19 

Adopted 

the  public  sector  bodies  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the  requirements  governing  protection  of 
individuals’ fundamental rights. Thus, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend to align Chapter II of the 
Proposal with the existing rules on the protection of personal data laid down in the GDPR and with 
the Open Data Directive, so as to ensure that the level of personal data protection in the EU is not 
undermined and to avoid, at the same time, that these misalignments generate legal uncertainty 
for individuals, public sector bodies and re-users. As an alternative, without prejudice to the further 
indications  in  this  Joint  Opinion  about  the  impact  on  the  individuals’  right  to  privacy  and  data 
protection of the rules of the Proposal governing the re-use of certain categories of protected data 
held by public sector bodies, personal data could be excluded  from its scope. 

3.3.2 Article 5: conditions for re-use of data by public sector bodies  

72. 

73. 

74. 

The  conditions  for  re-use  of  data  held  by  public  sector  bodies  are  provided  under  Article 5  of  the 
Proposal as specified under recital 11. In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the Proposal 
raises some concerns. 

The EDPB and the EDPS reiterate that all processing of personal data as referred to in the Proposal 
shall occur in full compliance with the GDPR, and thus accompanied by appropriate data protection 
safeguards.  This  means  that  the  re-use  of  personal  data  should  always  respect  the  principles  of 
lawfulness, fairness and transparency as well as purpose limitation, data minimization, accuracy, 
storage limitation, integrity and confidentiality in line with Article 5 of the GDPR. 

In this scenario, fairness, transparency and purpose limitation are essential safeguards to bring trust 
among individuals whose personal data are held by the public sector, making them confident that the 
re-use  of  the  information  they  provide  will  take  place  in  a  manner  that  respects  their  rights  and 
interests (see recital 14 of the Proposal), i.e., that their personal data will not be used against them in 
an unexpected manner. The importance of the principle of purpose limitation is clearly demonstrated 
in the context of the measures that are being considered to fight against the COVID-19, e.g. health 
data to be processed under the control of healthcare authorities as data controllers and not to be 
used for commercial or other incompatible purpose32. Consequently, public sector bodies which are 
competent under national or EU law to grant or refuse access for the re-use must take into account 
that the re-use of personal data is permissible only if the principle of purpose limitation as set out in 
point  (b) of  Article  5(1)  and  Article  6 of  the  GDPR  is met33.  Any  subsequent  use of  data,  collected 
and/or  shared  in  pursuit  of  a  public  task  (e.g.  for  improving  transport/mobility  or  tackling  serious 
cross-border threats to health), for commercial for-profit purposes (for instance insurance, marketing, 
etc.)  should  be  avoided.  Such  “function  creep”  might  not  only  constitute  a  breach  of  the  data 
protection principles under Article 5 of the GDPR, but could also undermine the trust of individuals in 
the re-use mechanism, which is a fundamental aim of the Proposal (see recitals 14 and 19)34. 

75. 

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that Article 6(4) GDPR clarifies the concept of ‘compatible 
further processing’ (of personal data). Indeed, according to the definition of ‘re-use’ set out in Article 
2(2)  of  the  Proposal,  when  it  concerns  personal  data,  the  re-use  is  to  be  regarded,  under  a  data 
protection  perspective,  as  a  further  processing  of  personal  data  held  by  public  sector  bodies  for 
                                                           

32 See EDPS Opinion on the European Strategy for Data, paragraph 10. 
33 See in this regard recital (52) of the Open Data Directive. 
34 See EDPS Opinion on the European Strategy for Data, paragraph 25. 
 

Adopted 

20 

subsequent not well described (commercial or non-commercial) purposes. However, Article 5 of the 
Proposal, concerning the conditions for re-use, does not provide any indication on the purposes for 
which the re-use may be lawfully authorised, nor it specifies that the purposes of any subsequent re-
use have to be carefully identified and clearly defined in Union or Member State law in compliance 
with Article 6(1)(c) or 6(1)(e) and 6(3) of the GDPR35, eventually satisfying the requirements of Article 
23(1) of the GDPR pursuant to Article 6(4) of the GDPR36.  

76.  More generally, the Proposal does not seem to lay down any legal obligation for public sector bodies 
to make data they held available for re-use, nor does it explicitly aim at safeguarding the objectives 
listed in Article 23 of the GDPR. 

77. 

78. 

79. 

Therefore, the EDPB and EDPS strongly recommend to amend the Proposal so as to clarify that the 
re-use of personal data held by public sector bodies may only be allowed if it is grounded in Union 
or  Member  State law  which  lays  down  a list  of clear  compatible  purposes  for  which the  further 
processing may be lawfully authorised or constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a 
democratic society to safeguard the objectives referred to in Article 23 of the GDPR.  

Furthermore and in line with the above recommendation, to allow a lawful access to personal data 
by “data users”, as indicated by the definition of ‘data users’ pursuant to Article 2(6) of the Proposal, 
public sector bodies, which are competent under national or EU law to grant or refuse such access 
for the re-use, must rely on an adequate legal basis under Article 6 of the GDPR being applicable to 
the said disclosure. However, this aspect is not specified under Article 5 of the Proposal referring to 
the conditions for re-use of personal data held by public sector bodies. 

Indeed, recital 11 of the Proposal and the corresponding Article 5(3)-(6) does not refer to Union or 
Member State law that would provide the legal basis under Article 6(1)(c) or (e) of the GDPR, but lays 
down (bold added): “In particular, personal data should only be transmitted for re-use to a third party 
where  a  legal  basis  allows  such  transmission”.  In  this  respect,  it  shall  be  noted  that  the  reference 
should be to the legal basis “under the GDPR”. Moreover, the said recital restricts itself to state that 
“[t]he public sector bodies, where relevant, should facilitate the re-use of data on the basis of consent 
of  data  subjects  or  permissions  of  legal  persons  on  the  re-use  of  data  pertaining  to  them  through 
adequate technical means. In this respect, the public sector body should support potential re-users in 
seeking  such  consent  by  establishing  technical  mechanisms  that  permit  transmitting  requests  for 

                                                           

35 According to Article 6.3 GDPR, Union or Member State law under Article 6(1)(c) or 6(1)(e) of the GDPR should 
identify  amongst  other  elements  the  “purpose  limitation”  of  the  personal  data  processing  as  well  as  the 
“purpose for which data may be disclosed”. 
36 In  another  respect,  the  inclusion  of  data  held  by  public  sector  bodies  which  are  protected  on  grounds  of 
statistical confidentiality in the scope of Chapter II of the Proposal, according to its Article 3(1)(b) and despite 
the  principle  stated  in  its  Article  3(3),  risks  to  contradict,  the  essential  principles  of  data  protection  in  the 
statistical sector and in particular, the purpose limitation principle, which strictly prohibits the use of confidential 
data for purposes that are not exclusively statistical, thus undermining trust of natural persons in providing their 
personal data for statistical purposes (see recital 27 of the above mentioned Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 on 
European  statistics  and  Articles  4(1)  and  4(2)  of  the  Recommendation  of  the  Council  of  Europe  No  R  (97)18 
concerning the protection of personal data collected and processed for statistical purposes). 

 

Adopted 

21 

80. 

81. 

82. 

consent from re-users, where practically feasible. No contact information should be given that allows 
re-users to contact data subjects or companies directly.”  

The wording of recital 14 of the Proposal is also unclear in setting out the interplay of this Chapter of 
the Proposal with the GDPR: “[...] Additional safeguards should thus be put in place for situations in 
which the re-use of such public sector data is taking place on the basis of a processing of the data 
outside the public sector. Such an additional safeguard could be found in the requirement that public 
sector bodies should take fully into account the rights and interests of natural and legal persons (in 
particular  the  protection  of  personal  data,  commercially  sensitive  data  and  the  protection  of 
intellectual property rights) in case such data is transferred to third countries”37. 

Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS notice that Article 5(6) of the Proposal lays downs "Where the 
re-use of data cannot be granted in accordance with the obligations laid down in paragraphs 3 to 5 
and there is no other legal basis for transmitting the data under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 [...]". In 
this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS are of the opinion that the conditions listed under paragraphs 3 
to 5 (among which, access and re-use of data within a secure processing environment) cannot be 
considered as an alternative to the legal basis exhaustively listed under Article 6 of the GDPR, unless 
the reference to (Union or) Member State law is made in the aforesaid paragraphs38. 

In  addition,  it  is  unclear  the  role  of  the  public  sector  body  in  supporting  re-users  in  obtaining  the 
consent for the reuse by the data subject. As a further remark on Article 5(6) of the Proposal, the EDPB 
and the EDPS point out that this provision establishes an obligation for public sector bodies ("shall 
support"), whose content is not well defined. More to the point, the legal basis under the GDPR for 
contacting  data  subjects  to  collect  their  consent  for  the  re-use  should  be  specified,  as  well  as  the 
respective  responsibility  related  to obtaining  a  valid consent  under  Article  7 of  the  GDPR.39 In  this 
regard, it should also be taken into account the clear imbalance of power which is often present in the 
relationship between the data  subject  and the public  authorities40. In this context, in line with the 
GDPR accountability principle, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that the choice of an appropriate legal 
basis for the processing of personal data, as well as the demonstration that the chosen legal basis (in 
this case consent) can be validly applied, lies on the data controller.  

83. 

Therefore,  in  line  with  the  principle  of  lawfulness  established  by  the  GDPR,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS 
strongly  recommend  to  clarify,  among  the  conditions  for  re-use  provided  for  in  Article  5  of  the 
Proposal, that an appropriate legal ground under GDPR must be provided in Union or Member State 
law and carefully identified by public sector bodies with regard to any subsequent re-use of personal 
data. 

                                                           

37 In addition, the EDPB and EDPS note that public sector bodies should not just take into account but  comply 
with the legal framework protecting the rights and interests of data subjects. 
38 It might also be worth specifying, for the sake of clarity, that intellectual property rights, referred to under 
Article 5(7), do not allow (constitute a legal basis for) the processing of personal data. 
39 Would it be the responsibility of the public sector body or of the re-user? 
40 In another respect, it should be reminded that consent in most cases is not an appropriate legal basis for the 
processing  activities  performed  by  public  authorities.  See  the  EDPB  Guidelines  5/2020  on  consent  under 
Regulation 2016/579 at https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/guidelines/guidelines-052020-
consent-under-regulation-2016679_en  

 

Adopted 

22 

84.  Other  key  elements  to  build  the  level  of  trust  aimed  at  in  the  Proposal  are  the  fairness  and  the 
transparency principles. According to these principles, individuals must be fully aware whether the 
personal data they provide  to the  public sector bodies,  or that are further processed by the same 
bodies in the pursuit of their public tasks, will become subject to re-use and for which purposes, as 
well as the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the personal data will be disclosed taking 
into  account  that  in  most  cases  data  subjects  are  compelled  under  national  law  to  provide  their 
personal data to public bodies because of legal obligations or because they apply for a public action 
or service41.  

85.  However,  among  the  conditions  for  re-use  established  in  Article  5  of  the  Proposal,  there  is  no 
reference  to the  obligations  for  the  public  sector  bodies  of  informing  the  data  subjects  under  the 
GDPR, nor to the need of involving them in the process of enabling the re-use of their personal data. 
This  not  only  undermines  the  principles  of  fairness  and  transparency  established  by  the  GDPR  to 
ensure that individuals have a clear overview and control on the possible uses of their own personal 
data, but also contradicts the same goals of the Proposal which is to increase trust of data subjects 
that the re-use “will take place in a manner that respects their right and interests” 42. Therefore, the 
EDPB and EDPS recommend to include in the Proposal an explicit reference to the obligations for 
the public sector bodies of informing the data subjects under the GDPR so that to foster the exercise 
of  the  rights  conferred  to  them  by  the  data  protection  legislation,  especially  the  right  to  object 
pursuant to Article 21 of the GDPR. In this respect, the EDPB and EDPS also recommend to define in 
the Proposal adequate means by which individuals may participate, in an open and collaborative 
manner, in the process of allowing the re-use of their personal data. 

86.  Moreover,  to  attain  a  reasonable  level  of  trust  in  the  re-use  mechanism,  public  sector  bodies, 
competent under national or EU law to allow access for the re-use must respect the principles of data 
minimisation and consider the special protection required for specific sectors routinely dealing with 
special  categories  of  personal  data,  such  as  the  health  sector,  when  they  establish  the  scope  and 
conditions for allowing access for the re-use. In assuming these decisions, accuracy, storage limitation, 
integrity  and  confidentiality  of  personal  data  should  also  be  carefully  considered,  as  well  as  the 
potential impact on the concerned data subjects. 

87. 

88. 

In this regard, the EDPB and EDPS call the attention of the legislator to the need of addressing the 
necessary requirements of the protection of personal data, especially in “sensitive sectors” such as 
the health sector, when establishing the rules governing the re-use of personal data, as well as the 
related conditions and specific data protection safeguards. 

In particular, according to the GDPR, the data protection impact assessment (DPIA) is a key tool to 
ensure that data protection requirements are properly taken into account and the rights and interests 
of individuals are adequately protected, so as to foster their trust in the re-use mechanism. Therefore, 
the EDPB and EDPS recommend to include in the text of the Proposal that a DPIA must be performed 
by public sector bodies in case of data processing falling under Article 35 of the GDPR43. The DPIA will 
help to identify the risks and the appropriate data protection safeguards for the re-use addressing 

                                                           

41  See  Court  of  Justice  of  the  European  Union,  C-201/14,  Smaranda  Bara  and  Others,  1  October  2015, 
ECLI:EU:C:2015:638. 
42 See Recital 14 of the Proposal 
43 See in this regard recital (53) of the Open Data Directive. 
 

23 

Adopted 

those risks, in particular for specific sectors routinely dealing with special categories of personal data. 
The decision on the re-use, in addition to being grounded on Union or Member State law, especially 
for some “sensitive sectors” (health sector, but also transport or energy grids) should be based on this 
assessment, as well as the specific conditions for the re-users and the concrete safeguards for data 
subjects(for example, clarifying the risks of re-identification of anonymised data and the safeguards 
against those risks). Finally, the results of such assessment, whenever possible, should be made public, 
as a further measure enhancing trust and transparency44. 

89.  As for the conditions for re-use, Article 5(3) of the Proposal specifies that public sector bodies “may” 
impose an obligation to re-use only prior anonymized or pseudonymised personal data. This means 
that public sector bodies are not obliged to pre-process personal data so that to make available to re-
users only prior anonymized or pseudonymised personal data. Consequently, public sector bodies may 
disclose to re-users even data which allow the natural persons - to whom the data relate - to be directly 
identified, if provision of anonymised data “would not respond to the needs of the re-user” 45. In this 
case, on-premise or remote re-use of personal data within a secure processing environment could still 
be  permitted  by  public  sector  bodies  under  Article  5(4)  of  the  Proposal.  However,  given  the  rapid 
developments  in  re-identification  techniques  and  the  availability  of  advanced  computational 
resources, the legislator should take into account that anonymisation, pseudonymisation, and even 
the  use  of  secure  environments  cannot  be  considered  in  all  cases  as  free  from  vulnerabilities, 
especially in the long term.  

90. 

91. 

In this context, the EDPB and the EDPS welcome that recital 11 of the Proposal envisages that “the use 
of such secure processing environment” may be made by the public sector body “conditional on the 
signature by the re-user of a confidentiality agreement that prohibits the disclosure of any information 
that jeopardises the rights and interests of third parties that the re-user may have acquired despite the 
safeguards put in place”. However, the EDPB and the EDPS also recommend to include a reference 
to such confidentiality agreement in the legal text of the Proposal among the conditions for re-use 
laid  down  in  Article  5.  This  agreement  should  also  prohibit  the  re-users  from  re-identifying  any 
individual to whom the data relates and should contain the obligation for the re-users to assess on 
an on-going basis the risks of re-identification and to report any data breach resulting in the re-
identification of the individuals concerned not only to the Data Protection Authority and the data 
subjects pursuant to Articles 33 and 34 of the GDPR, but also to the public sector body concerned. 

In any case, the EDPB and EDPS emphasize that anonymisation and pseudonymisation cannot be 
placed at the same level and should be weighted differently by public sector bodies in assessing the 
re-use from a data protection perspective. Indeed, anonymisation represents a means of fostering 
the  public  sector  information  re-use  in  a  pro-competitive  perspective,  while  also  meeting  the 
various  requirements  under  data  protection  legislation,  given  that  ‘anonymous  information’,  as 
defined  in  Recital  26  of  the  GDPR,  does  not  fall  within  the  scope  of  the  said  legislation.  On  the 
contrary, information which has undergone pseudonymisation (which could lead to re-identification 
by a natural person by the use of additional information) should still be considered “personal data”, 
thus entailing the application of other measures required by the data protection legislation, while 

                                                           

44 See EDPS Opinion on the proposal for a recast of the Public Sector Information (PSI) re-use Directive, available 
at: https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/18-07-11_psi_directive_opinion_en.pdf 
45 See recital 11 of the Proposal 
 

24 

Adopted 

reducing  the  risks  for  data  subjects  and  helping  public  sector  bodies  and  re-users  to  meet  data 
protection obligations (in particular the principles of data protection by design and by default and 
data minimisation). The latter considerations apply also to the measures envisaged by Article 5(4) 
of the Proposal that public sector bodies may impose as conditions for re-use. 

3.3.3  Article 5(11): re-use of “highly sensitive” non-personal data 

92.  Article  5(11)  introduces  the  concept  of  non-personal  data  that  have  been  identified  as  “highly 
sensitive”, as regards the transfer to third countries, by Union law. Recital 19 of the Proposal provides 
some examples: “in the health domain, certain datasets held by actors in the public health system, 
such as public hospitals” “identified as highly sensitive health data”, “for example in the context of the 
European Health Data Space or other sectoral legislation”. With regard to such non-personal data, the 
Commission shall adopt delegated acts laying down special conditions applicable to the transfer of 
such data to third countries.  

93. 

In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS note that even if information in a anonymised data set does not 
present a risk of directly identifying or singling out a natural person, when this information is combined 
with other available information, it could entail the risk of indirect identification, so that it is likely to 
fall within the scope of the definition of personal data. Indeed, the more information is available and 
data  are  re-used  and  shared,  the  more  difficult  it  will  be  to  ensure  anonymisation  over  time. 46 
Consequently, the EDPS and the EDPB would like to draw attention to the fact that much of the data 
already  today  -and  increasingly  in  the  future-  generated  and  processed  by  techniques  of  artificial 
intelligence, machine learning, internet of things, cloud computing and big data analysis, are often 
likely to fall within the scope of the definition of personal data. In this scenario, the EDPB and the 
EDPS calls upon the legislator to consider that even the re-use of non-personal “highly sensitive” 
data envisaged by the Proposal may have an impact on the protection of personal data, especially 
if such non-personal data are the result of the anonymisation of personal data and thus information 
originally related to individuals. Indeed also in these cases, the data subjects’ fundamental rights to 
privacy  and  data  protection  must  be  fully  ensured.  Moreover,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  strongly 
recommend clarifying the concept of “highly sensitive non-personal data”, as a minimum by providing 
concrete examples. 

3.3.4 Article 6: fees for data re-use  

94.  As for the fees envisaged under Article 6 of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the Open 
Data Directive contains an explicit reference to ‘anonymisation costs’ in Recitals 36 and 38 as well as 
in Article 6, paragraphs (1), (4) and (5). In particular, the Open Data Directive provides for an exception 
to the re-use of documents free of charge in order to allow public sector bodies to charge re-users the 
reasonable  expenses  they  incur  in  to  pre-process,  aggregate  and/or  anonymise  the  personal  data 

                                                           

46 See in this regard, the WP29 Opinion 05/2014 on Anonymisation techniques (WP 216) as well as the Judgment 
of the ECJ of 19 October 2016, Patrick Breyer v Bundesrepublik Deutschland, in case C-582/14 which refers to 
Recital  26  of  Directive  95/46/EC,  looking  at  the  legal  and  practical  means  by  which  re-identification  may  be 
affected  by  the  use  of  additional  data  in  the  hands  of  third  parties.  The  forthcoming  EDPB  guidelines  on 
anonymisation/pseudonymisation will further elaborate upon this matter.   
 

25 

Adopted 

offered for re-use, in situations where the use of such techniques would be justified in light of the 
increased risks deriving from offering such data for re-use.  

95.  Given that, in certain cases, the pseudonymisation or anonymisation of information held by public 
sector bodies can be a complex, time-consuming and expensive task requiring expertise that might 
not always be available, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend including in Article 6(5) of the Proposal 
that fees charged by public sector bodies for allowing the re-use of data may duly take into account 
the costs incurred by public sector bodies for the pseudonymisation or anonymisation of personal 
data made available for reuse. 

96. 

It can also be noted that the Proposal reverses the general principle established by the Open Data 
Directive of “free of charge” re-use.  Indeed, Article 6(1) of the  Proposal states that  “public sector 
bodies which allow re-use of the categories of data referred to in Article 3 (1) may charge fees for 
allowing the re-use of such data.” In this regard, the interplay with the Open Data Directive is therefore 
unclear. 

97.  Moreover, it can be observed that, even though Article 6(5) specifies that “Fees shall be derived from 
the costs related to the processing of the requests for re-use (...)”, the Proposal seems to introduce 
financial incentives to public sector bodies to allow the re-use of personal data. 

98. 

99. 

It also has to be noted thatArticle 6(4) imposes an obligation to public sector bodies to “take measures 
to incentivize the reuse of the categories of data referred to in Article 3 (1) [which include personal 
data] for non-commercial purposes and by small and medium-sized enterprises in line with State aid 
rules.” 

This aspect, also in the light of the criticalities of the Proposal described in the general comments of 
this  Joint  Opinion, is problematic  from a  data protection viewpoint, under  both legal and practical 
implementation’s perspective. In particular, the lack of clarity on the type of incentives and addressees 
thereof may raise additional questions as to whether consent, as one of the legal basis relied upon 
under Article 5(6) of the Proposal for the re-use personal data, will be the appropriate legal ground, 
especially with regard to the individuals’ freedom of choice to refuse to provide their consent to the 
re-use of their personal data or to withdraw it47.  

 

3.3.5  Governance  and  institutional  aspects:  Article  7  (competent  bodies).  Article  8  (single 

information point). 

100.  The Proposal provides that Members States will have to set up a single contact point for reuse of public 
sector  data  (Article  8),  and  to  establish  bodies  in  charge  of  supporting  public  sector  bodies  with 
technical means and legal assistance for reuse of public sector data (Article 7). Pursuant to Article 7(3), 
such “competent bodies” may be entrusted to grant access for the reuse of data, including personal 
data.  

                                                           

47  As  stated  in  the  EDPB  Guidelines  05/2020  on  consent  under  GDPR,  in  general  terms,  any  element  of 
inappropriate pressure or influence upon the data subject (which may be manifested in many different ways) 
which prevents a data subject from exercising their free will, shall render the consent invalid. 
 

26 

Adopted 

101.  Therefore, with regard to the competent bodies, they will, inter alia, assist the public sector bodies in 
obtaining consent or permission for the re-use and can also be entrusted to grant access for the re-
use of data held by the public sector body, including personal data.  

102.  Firstly, the provision under Article 7(2)(c) should be clarified, due in particular to the vagueness of the 
terminology used (“permission by re-users for reuse”; “altruistic and other purposes”; “in line with 
specific decisions of data holders”). The overall meaning of the provision (“the competent bodies assist 
the public sector bodies, where relevant, in obtaining consent or permission by re-users for re-use for 
altruistic and other purposes in line with specific decisions of data holders”) is therefore also unclear. 

103.  Secondly, despite those bodies are essentially tasked with support and advisory duties vis-à-vis public 
sector bodies for data re-use, some of their tasks deal with implementing the safeguards set out in 
the data protection legislation and fostering the protection of the rights and interests of individuals 
with regards to their personal data. However, Chapter II of the Proposal does not clarify whether data 
protection supervisory authorities - to which the GDPR also confers, among others, advisory powers - 
may be designated as the competent body under Article 7 of the Proposal48. 

104.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPS  and  the  EDPB  firstly  underline  that  the  designation  and  multiplication  of 
competent bodies that may deal, to some extent, with personal data processing under Chapter II of 
the Proposal could lead to real complexity for public sector bodies, re-users and data subjects, and 
also affect consistency in terms of monitoring the application of the provisions of the GDPR. Hence, 
inasmuch as personal data is being subject to re-use on the basis of the Proposal, the EDPB and the 
EDPS consider that the data protection supervisory authorities should be the only ones competent 
for the oversight of such personal data processing.  Adequate resources should be provided to these 
authorities to allow them to effectively and efficiently perform this task. 

105.  Furthermore, should specific bodies be designated to assist public sector bodies and data re-users 
and be entrusted to grant access for the reuse of data, including personal data, such bodies may not 
be referred as “competent” as they would not act as a supervisory authority able to monitor and 
enforce the provisions related to the processing of personal data. In order to ensure legal certainty 
and  consistency  of  the  application  of  the  EU  acquis  in  the  field  of  personal  data  protection,  the 
activities and obligations of such designated bodies shall also be subject to the direct competence 
and supervision of data protection authorities, when personal data is involved. 

106.  As per their competence and tasks under the GDPR, data protection authorities have already specific 
expertise in the monitoring of the compliance of data processing, as well as in promoting awareness 
of controller and processor of their obligation related to the processing of personal data. Therefore, 
in order to ensure consistency between the institutional framework envisaged by Chapter II of the 
Proposal  and  the  GDPR,  the  EDPB  and  the EDPS  recommend to clarify  that  the  main  competent 
authorities  for  the  supervision  and  enforcement  of  the  provisions  of  Chapter  II  related  to  the 
processing of personal are the data protection supervisory authorities. The latter authorities should 

                                                           

48 As it is the case, for example, in the context of existing data spaces, such as the French Health Data Hub, where 
the FR data protection authority is the one competent to authorise access to specific personal data. See also in 
this regard the advisory powers conferred to the data protection authorities in the context of a DPIA, in order 
ensure  their  compliance  with  the  rules  for  the  protection of  personal  data  according  to  Articles  57(1)(l)  and 
58(3)(a) of the GDPR. 
 

27 

Adopted 

work closely with the specific bodies designated, under the Proposal, to assist public sector bodies 
and re-users and entrusted to grant access for the reuse of data, in consultation with other relevant 
sectorial authorities, when necessary, so as to ensure a coherent application of these provisions. 

107.  The EDPB and the EDPS also observe that the Proposal does envisage under Article 8(4) a mechanism 
for redress for re-users where they wish to challenge the decision of refusing access for re-use that is 
different from the one established under the Open Data Directive. Under the Open Data Directive (See 
Article 4(4)), in particular, the means of redress shall include the possibility of review by an impartial 
review  body  with  the  appropriate  expertise,  such  as,  among  others,  “the  supervisory  authority 
established  in  accordance  with  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  or  a  national  judicial  authority,  whose 
decisions are binding upon the public sector body concerned”. In this respect, without prejudice to the 
observations already made in this Joint Opinion on the need of clarifying the interplay of the Proposal 
with  the  Open  Data  Directive,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  call  the  attention  of  the  legislator  on  the 
inconsistencies between those two set of rules. 

 

3.4  Requirements applicable to data sharing service providers  

The Explanatory Memorandum illustrates that “Chapter III aims to increase trust in sharing personal 
and non-personal data and lower transaction costs linked to B2B and C2B data sharing by creating a 
notification regime for data sharing providers. These providers will have to comply with a number of 
requirements, in particular the requirement to remain neutral as regards the data exchanged. They 
cannot  use  such  data  for other  purposes.  In  the  case  of  providers  of  data sharing  services  offering 
services  for  natural  persons,  the  additional  criterion  of  assuming  fiduciary  duties  towards  the 
individuals using them will also have to be met. The approach is designed to ensure that data sharing 
services function in an open and collaborative manner, while empowering natural and legal persons 
by giving them a better overview of and control over their data. A competent authority designated by 
the Member States will be responsible for monitoring compliance with the requirements attached to 
the provision of such services.”49 

108.  Article 9(1) of the Proposal, specified under recital 22, sets out three different types of data sharing 

services: 

- under letter (a), intermediary between data holders which are legal persons and potential data users; 

- under letter (b), intermediation services between data subjects and potential data users; 

- under letter (c), ‘data cooperatives’. 

109.  Having regard to the first type of data sharing service, Article 9(1)(a) refers to “intermediation services 
between data holders which are legal persons and potential data users, including making available the 
technical or other means to enable such services; those services may include bilateral or multilateral 
exchanges of data or the creation of platforms or databases enabling the exchange or joint exploitation 
of data, as well as the establishment of a specific infrastructure for the interconnection of data holders 
and data users.” 

                                                           

49 Explanatory Memorandum, page 7. 
 

Adopted 

28 

110.  Recital (22) specifies: “Providers of data sharing services (data intermediaries) are expected to play a 
key  role  in  the  data  economy,  as  a  tool  to  facilitate  the  aggregation  and  exchange  of  substantial 
amounts of relevant data. Data intermediaries offering services that connect the different actors have 
the potential to contribute to the efficient pooling of data as well as to the facilitation of bilateral data 
sharing. Specialised data intermediaries that are independent from both data holders and data users 
can have a facilitating role in the emergence of new data-driven ecosystems independent from any 
player with a significant degree of market power. This Regulation should only cover providers of data 
sharing services that have as a main objective the establishment of a business, a legal and potentially 
also technical relation between data holders, including data subjects, on the one hand, and potential 
users on the other hand, and assist both parties in a transaction of data assets between the two. It 
should only cover services aiming at intermediating between an indefinite number of data holders and 
data users, excluding data sharing services that are meant to be used by a closed group of data holders 
and users.” 

111.  In light of the above, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the issue referred to under the general 
remarks of this Joint Opinion as overarching concern, namely the risk that the Proposal creates a 
parallel set of rules, which are not consistent with the GDPR, is particularly evident with reference 
to Chapter III of the Proposal. Indeed, it is unclear the interplay of the provisions under Article 9 of 
the Proposal, referring to ‘data holders’, ‘potential data users’, ‘the exchange or joint exploitation 
of data’, ‘the interconnection of data holders and data users’, with the rules and principles of the 
GDPR. 

112.  We recall that the data sharing service as platform “intermediating between an indefinite number of 
data  holders  and  data  users”  excluding  the  use  by  a  closed  group  of  data  users,  in  so  far  as  the 
intermediation  relates  to personal  data,  shall  be  compliant  in  particular  with  the  principle  of  data 
protection by design and by default under Article 25 of the GDPR50. 

                                                           

50 See  Article  25(2):  “The  controller  shall  implement  appropriate  technical  and  organisational  measures  for 
ensuring that, by default, only personal data which are necessary for each specific purpose of the processing are 
processed. That obligation applies to the amount of personal data collected, the extent of their processing, the 
period of their storage and their accessibility. In particular, such measures shall ensure that by default personal 
data  are  not  made  accessible  without  the  individual's  intervention  to  an  indefinite  number  of  natural 
persons.” 
See also EDPB Guidelines 4/2019 on the principle of privacy by design and by default, at page 20: 
“Key design and default purpose limitation elements may include: 
- Predetermination – The legitimate purposes shall be determined before the design of the processing. 
- Specificity – The purposes shall be specified and explicit as to why personal data is being processed. 
- Purpose orientation – The purpose of processing should guide the design of the processing and set processing 
boundaries. 
- Necessity – The purpose determines what personal data is necessary for the processing. 
-  Compatibility  –  Any  new  purpose  must  be  compatible  with  the  original  purpose  for  which  the  data  was 
collected and guide relevant changes in design. 
- Limit further processing – The controller should not connect datasets or perform any  further processing for 
new incompatible purposes. 
- Limitations of reuse – The controller should use technical measures, including hashing and encryption, to limit 
the possibility of repurposing personal data. The controller should also have organisational measures, such as 
policies and contractual obligations, which limit reuse of personal data. 

 

Adopted 

29 

 

113.  The EDPB and the EDPS also point out to the data protection principles of transparency (and purpose 
limitation) of the processing of personal data. As stated in the WP29 Guidelines on transparency “the 
data  subject  should  ...  be  able  to  determine  in  advance  what  the  scope  and  consequences  of  the 
processing entails"  (...) “namely the kind of effect will the specific processing described in a privacy 
statement/notice actually have on a data subject".51 

114.  The concept of data sharing service as platform “intermediating between an indefinite number of 
data holders and data users”, as kind of open data marketplace, would be contrary to the aforesaid 
data protection principles of privacy by design and by default, transparency and purpose limitation 
if the platform does not allow a pre-selection of and prior information about the purposes and users 
of her or his personal data by and to the data subject. For the sake of clarity, the Proposal should 
specify, at least in a recital, this aspect. 

115.  The scope of the notion of data intermediary between data holders and legal persons is also unclear, 

and hence should be better specified52. 

116.  As a general observation, it can also be remarked that the Proposal does not specify how (according 
to which GDPR legal basis) data sharing service providers will collect personal data for the sharing 
purposes. 

117.  It is also unclear whether data sharing service providers can intermediate data allowed for re-use by 

public sector bodies under Chapter II of the Proposal. 

118.  It is also key, for transparency reasons and to increase (rather than decrease) the level of citizens’ 
trust, to make clear in the Proposal that the data sharing service will be provided upon payment of a 

                                                           

- Review – The controller should regularly review whether the processing is necessary for the purposes for which 
the data was collected and test the design against purpose limitation.” 
51 Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on transparency under Regulation 2016/679 WP260, rev.01, page 7. 
52 Recital  22  specifies:  “[..]  Providers  of  cloud  services  should  be  excluded,  as  well  as  service  providers  that 
obtain data from data holders, aggregate, enrich or transform the data and licence the use of the resulting 
data to data users, without establishing a direct relationship between data holders and data users, for example 
advertisement or data brokers, data consultancies, providers of data products resulting from value added to 
the data by the service provider. At the same time, data sharing service providers should be allowed to make 
adaptations to the data exchanged, to the extent that this improves the usability of the data by the data user, 
where the data user desires this, such as to convert it into specific formats. In addition, services that focus on 
the intermediation of content, in particular on copyright-protected content, should not  be covered by this 
Regulation. 
Data exchange platforms that are exclusively used by one data holder in order to enable the use of data they 
hold as well as platforms developed in the context of objects and devices connected to the Internet-of-Things 
that have as their main objective to ensure functionalities of the connected object or device and allow value 
added services, should not be covered by this Regulation. ‘Consolidated tape providers’ in the sense of Article 4 
(1)  point  53  of  Directive  2014/65/EU  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  as  well  as  ‘account 
information service providers’ in the sense of Article 4 point 19 of Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of  the European 
Parliament and of the Council should not be considered as data sharing service providers for the purposes of 
this Regulation. Entities which restrict their activities to facilitating use of data made available on the basis of 
data altruism and that operate on a not-for-profit basis should not be covered by Chapter III of this Regulation, 
as this activity serves objectives of general interest by increasing the volume of data available for such purposes.” 

 

Adopted 

30 

‘price’ by data holders and data users. This aspect can be deducted from the wording of Article 11(3) 
of the Proposal53, but is unclear and incomplete (it does not provide a clear picture of the monetary 
transactions  accompanying  the  processing  of  personal  data).  The  clear  incentive  to  ‘monetize’ 
personal data also increases the importance of checks on data protection compliance54. Regrettably, 
in this regard, as well as in relation to the other chapters of the Proposal, the impact assessment55 
does not take the data protection risks into account. 

119.  Moreover, the EDPB and  the  EDPS observe  that  the Proposal does  not  provide a clear picture, for 
instance via examples  in  the  recitals, of the  ‘use  cases’  of  data  sharing  services  (whose  ‘monetary 
transaction aspect’, as highlighted, shall be made clear to the public and to the persons concerned 
when this is the case). For instance, recital (22) specifies what is not a data exchange platform to be 
considered ‘data intermediary’: “Data exchange platforms that are exclusively used by one data holder 
in order to enable the use of data they hold as well as platforms developed in the context of objects 
and  devices  connected  to  the  Internet-of-Things  that  have  as  their  main  objective  to  ensure 
functionalities of the connected object or device and allow value added services, should not be covered 
by this Regulation”, but does not provide in this regard the envisaged use case.  

 

3.4.1 Data intermediaries under Article 9(1) (b): intermediation services between data subjects 

and potential data users56. 

120.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  note  that  the  provisions  related  to  intermediation  services  between  data 
subjects that seek to make their personal data available and potential data users in the exercise of the 
rights provided in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as per article 9(1)(b), is to be applied without prejudice 
to the effective  application of the data subjects’ rights  and data controller’s obligations  as per  the 
GDPR. 

121.  The  Proposal  however  does  not  specify  the  modalities  upon  which  such  service  providers  would 
effectively assist individuals in exercising their rights under  the GDPR nor provides indication as to 
which personal data processing such assistance would apply and towards which data users precisely57. 

122.  The EDPB and the EDPS first of all consider that the effective exercise of data subjects’ rights and the 
possible modalities for such exercise are provided for by the GDPR, under the monitoring of national 
supervisory authorities as per Article 51 of that same Regulation. The lack of clarity on the precise 
                                                           

53 Article 11(3) of the Proposal lays down: “the provider shall ensure that the procedure for access to its service 
is fair, transparent and non-discriminatory for both data holders and data users, including as regards prices.” 
54 In this regard, the EDPB is developing guidance on the collection and use of personal data against financial 
remuneration. 
55 Impact Assessment accompanying the Data Governance Act, SWD(2020) 295 final, available at: 
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=SWD:2020:0295:FIN:EN:PDF 
56 Article 9(1)(b) of the Proposal refers to: “intermediation services between data subjects that seek to make 
their personal data available and potential data users, including making available the technical or other means 
to enable such services, in the exercise of the rights provided in Regulation (EU) 2016/679.” 
57 Article 11(10) of the Proposal is still quite vague in its wording “the provider offering services to data subjects 
shall act in the data subjects’ best interest when facilitating the exercise of their rights, in particular by advising 
data subjects on potential data uses and standard terms and conditions attached to such uses;” 

 

Adopted 

31 

modalities  in  the  assistance  provided  for  the  exercise  of  data  subjects’  rights,  as  well  as  on  the 
recipients  of  such  process  and  their  obligations  towards  data  subjects  may  lead  to  further  legal 
uncertainties in effectively exercising data subjects’ rights as per the GDPR.  

123.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  would  therefore  recommend  that  the  Proposal  reflects  the  EU  legal 
framework (GDPR) according to which such modalities, as well as related obligations applicable to 
data  sharing  services  providers  and  recipients,  can  be  further  specified  by  the  European  Data 
Protection Board, in accordance with Article 70 of the GDPR58.  

124.  It is also unclear whether the intermediation services under letter (b) of Article 9(1) of the Proposal, 
for which a definition is not provided under its Article 2, refer to and refer only to (and to which extent) 
Personal Information Management Systems (PIMS). The EDPB and the EDPS point out to the difference 
between PIMS, allowing management of personal data and facilitating the exercise of data subjects’ 
rights (‘interfacing with the data subject’)59, on the one hand, and business to business data sharing 
service providers (whose correlation with ‘data brokers’ is unclear), on the other hand. It is in relation 
to the latter, where the data subject is more far-way and at risk of not having a clear overview and 
control  over  the  sharing  of  his  or  her  personal  data,  that  criticalities  under  the  data  protection 
viewpoint may be higher60. 

125.  However, in all cases transparency, fairness and purpose limitation principles shall apply. 

126.  In its Opinion on PIMS, the EDPS pointed out that “In any event, it is crucial to ensure the transparency 
of the business model vis-à-vis the individuals whose data are being processed so that they are aware 
of the interests at stake (of PIMS and other service providers) and can use PIMS in full awareness” 61.  

                                                           

58 In this regard, the EDPB is currently working on guidelines on data subject rights.   
59  See  the  EDPS  Opinion  on  Personal  Information  Management  Systems,  20  October  2016,  available  at: 
https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/16-10-20_pims_opinion_en.pdf 
60 See EDPS Opinion on the European Strategy for Data, paragraph 20: “At the same time, the EDPS underlines 
the need of caution with regard to the role of data brokers that are actively engaged in the collection of huge 
datasets, including personal data from different sources. They tap into a variety of data sources used for data-
related services, such as data that are disclosed for other unrelated purposes; data from public registers (open 
data),  as  well  as  data  “crawled”  from  the  Internet  and  social  media,  often  in  violation  of  data  protection 
legislation. In this context, the EDPS notes that the activities of big data brokers are under increased scrutiny 
and are investigated by a number of national data protection authorities.” 
61 See page 13, para. 52, of the EDPS Opinion on Personal Information Management Systems, 20 October 2016, 
available at: https://edps.europa.eu/sites/edp/files/publication/16-10-20_pims_opinion_en.pdf 
See also para 53, page 13: “The model of PIMS seems to invite a debate over who ‘owns’ our personal data. 
Individuals in the EU have a fundamental right to the protection of their personal data, based upon Article 8 of 
the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. Detailed rights and obligations relating to the exercise of this right are 
regulated in further detail in the recently adopted GDPR. These issues are not specific to PIMS: personal data is 
often perceived as the ‘currency’ we pay for so-called ‘free’ services on the internet. This trend does not, however, 
mean that personal data of individuals can legally be considered as property which can be traded freely as any 
other property on the market. On the contrary, as a matter of principle PIMS will not be in a position to ‘sell’ 
personal data, but rather, their role will be to allow third parties to use personal data, for specific purposes, and 
specifics periods of time, subject to terms and conditions identified by the individuals themselves, and all other 
safeguards provided by applicable data protection law.” 

 

Adopted 

32 

127.  The Proposal provides some clarifications related to providers of data sharing services not established 
in the Union in order to determine whether such a provider is offering services within the Union. This 
specification, under recital 27 of the Proposal, seems in line with recital (23) of the GDPR. It might be 
useful,  for  the  sake  of  legal  certainty,  specifying  that,  in  case  of  processing  of  personal  data,  the 
aforesaid  data  sharing  service  providers  not  established  in  the  Union  are  subject  to  the  rules  and 
principles of the GDPR. 

3.4.2  Data intermediaries under Article 9(1) (c): ‘data cooperatives’ 

128.  The EDPB and the  EDPS  underline  that the notion of “service of data cooperatives”, introduced in 
Article 9(1)(c) of the Proposal62, remains unclear both in terms of nature and obligations. In this regard, 
a clear definition of such data sharing services providers, as well as their applicable obligations, should 
be introduced in order to avoid any legal uncertainty in the provision of such services. 

129.  While the Proposal specifies that data cooperatives “seek to strengthen the position of individuals in 
making informed choices before consenting to data use, influencing the terms and conditions of data 
user organisations attached to data use or potentially solving disputes between members of a group 
on how data can be used when such data pertain to several data subjects within that group”63, it is to 
be recalled that transparency obligations, as well as the conditions for the valid consent of the data 
subject  as  per  Article  6(1)(a)  of  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  and  the  condition  for  the  processing  of 
personal data under this legal basis, are defined and provided for by that same regulation. 

130.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  therefore  consider  that  the  position  of  individuals  in  making  informed 
choice, or the solving of potential dispute on how data can be used, are not to be considered as 
negotiable conditions but rather as data controllers’ obligations as per Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 
In this regard, it is also to be pointed out that the reference in Recital (24) of the Proposal to data 
that  would  “pertain”  to  several  data  subject,  insofar  as  it  relates  to  personal  data,  may  not  be 
consistent with the definition of personal data as per Regulation (EU) 2016/67964, which refers to 
“any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person”. 

131.  Furthermore, as recalled in Recital (24) of the Proposal, “the rights under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 
can only be exercised by each individual and cannot be conferred or delegated to a data cooperative”. 
The EDPB and the EDPS consider that the articulation of such principles with the possibility for data 
cooperatives to be conferred powers to “negotiate terms and conditions for data processing before 
they consent” is unclear at least, if not directly contradictory. Indeed, the “terms and conditions” for 
the processing of personal data are - as a matter of fact - those enshrined in the GDPR and, therefore, 
they cannot be amended or superseded by means of a contract or other type of private arrangements. 

                                                           

62 Article 9(1)(c) of the Proposal refers to “services of data cooperatives, that is to say services supporting data 
subjects  or  one-person  companies  or  micro,  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  who  are  members  of  the 
cooperative or who confer the power to the cooperative to negotiate terms and conditions for data processing 
before  they  consent,  in  making  informed  choices  before  consenting  to  data  processing,  and  allowing  for 
mechanisms to exchange views on data processing purposes and conditions that would best represent the 
interests of data subjects or legal persons.” 
63 Recital (24) of the Proposal. 
64 Definition under Article 4(1) of the GDPR. 
 

33 

Adopted 

3.4.3  Article  10:  notification  regime  -  general  requirements  to  be  eligible  for  registration  - 
content of the notification; outcome (and timing) of the notification. Article 11: conditions 
for providing data sharing services 

132.  Chapter III of the Proposal establishes an obligation for providers of data sharing services as described 
under Article 9(1) to submit a notification to the competent authority (mandatory notification). Article 
10(1)  and  (2)  provide  rules  on  the  identification  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Member  State  for  the 
purposes of the Proposal. This is the jurisdiction of the Member State of the main establishment of 
the data sharing service provider or the Member State of establishment of the legal representative of 
the data sharing service provider not established in the Union. 

133.  The information to be included in the notification is provided under Article 10(6), letters (a)-(h) of the 
Proposal65. In addition, Article 10(7) lays down that “At the request of the provider, the competent 
authority shall, within one week, issue a standardised declaration, confirming that the provider has 
submitted the notification referred to in paragraph 4.” 

134.  The notification regime, as highlighted in the Explanatory Memorandum, “consists of a  notification 
obligation with ex post monitoring of compliance with the requirements to exercise the activities by 
the competent authorities of the Member States”66. This aspect is further specified under recitals (30) 
and (31) of the Proposal67. 

135.  Hence, the ‘vetting’ of the data sharing service provider is limited to the verification by the competent 
authority of the (mainly formal) requirements set out in Article 10 and shall occur within a very short 
time-limit (one week from the date of notification). 

                                                           

65 “The notification shall include the following information: 
(a) the name of the provider of data sharing services; 
(b) the provider’s legal status, form and registration number, where the provider is  registered in trade or in 
another similar public register; 
(c) the address of the provider’s main establishment in the Union, if any, and, where applicable, any secondary 
branch in another Member State or that of the legal representative designated pursuant to paragraph 3; 
(d) a website where information on the provider and the activities can be found, where applicable; 
(e) the provider’s contact persons and contact details; 
(f) a description of the service the provider intends to provide; 
(g) the estimated date for starting the activity; 
(h) the Member States where the provider intends to provide services.” 
66 Explanatory Memorandum, page 5. 
67 “(30)  A  notification  procedure  for  data  sharing  services  should  be  established  in  order  to  ensure  a  data 
governance within the Union based on trustworthy exchange of data. The benefits of a trustworthy environment 
would be best achieved by imposing a number of requirements for the provision of data sharing services, but 
without requiring any explicit decision or administrative act by the competent authority for the provision of 
such services. 
(31)  In  order  to  support  effective  cross-border  provision  of  services,  the  data  sharing  provider  should  be 
requested to send a notification only to the designated competent authority from the Member State where 
its main establishment is located or where its legal representative is located. Such a notification should not 
entail more than a mere declaration of the intention to provide such services and should be completed only 
by the information set out in this Regulation.” (emphasis added) 

 

Adopted 

34 

136.  In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS note that the ‘vetting’ regime is almost ‘declarative’ and that 
the Commission has opted for the most ‘loose’ regime (as opposed for instance to an authorization 
regime). The EDPB and the EDPS observe that, at least with regard to the processing of personal 
data, the regime should be more protective (that is, provide more checks and safeguards for the 
data subjects, including on the crucially important data protection aspects). This would also allow 
ensuring the higher level of trust aimed at by the Commission.  

137.  In order to address this concern, in particular Recital 31 of the Proposal should be amended. 

138.  According to the data protection principle of accountability, data sharing service providers shall be 
able  among  others to  demonstrate  that  they  put  in  place  policies  and  procedures  that  allow  data 
subjects to easily exercise their individual data protection rights (procedures for ensuring compliance 
with data subjects’ rights), and should document the decisions about the data sharing (including in 
particular the purposes for which the personal data will be shared and the recipients or categories of 
recipients to whom they will be disclosed), evidencing their compliance with data protection law68. 
These aspects (which should form the ‘core’ of the labelling envisaged by the Proposal69) will have the 
effect of creating greater trust in data sharing service providers by the public. 

139.  The EDPB and the EDPS also remark that the provisions of data sharing services, as laid down under 
Article 11, shall be subject to conditions under (1)-(11). In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS notice 
that while reference is made among the conditions to compliance with competition rules (under (9)), 
these (exhaustively listed) conditions do not include compliance with data protection rules. 

140.  In light of the elements above, and considering the possible risk for data subject in the personal data 
processing  that  may  be  undertaken  by  data  sharing  service  providers,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS 
consider that the declaratory notification regime as laid down in the Proposal does not provide for 
a  sufficiently  stringent  vetting  procedure  applicable  to  such  services.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS 
recommend  exploring  alternative  procedures  which  should  notably  take  into  account  a  more 
systematic inclusion of accountability and compliance tools for the processing of personal data as 
per the GDPR, in particular the adherence to a code of conduct or certification mechanism. 

                                                           

68 According to Article 30 of the GDPR: “Each controller and, where applicable, the controller's representative, 
shall  maintain  a  record  of  processing  activities  under  its  responsibility.  That  record  shall  contain  all  of  the 
following  information:  (a)  the  name  and  contact  details  of  the  controller  and,  where  applicable,  the  joint 
controller, the controller's representative and the data protection officer; (b) the purposes of the processing; (c) 
a  description of the  categories of data  subjects and of the categories of personal data; (d) the categories of 
recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed including recipients in third countries or 
international organisations; (e) where applicable, transfers of personal data to a third country or an international 
organisation, including the identification of that third country or international organisation and, in the case of 
transfers referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), the documentation of suitable safeguards; (f) 
where possible, the envisaged time limits for erasure of the different categories of data; (g) where possible, a 
general description of the technical and organisational security measures referred to in Article 32(1). [...]” 
69 The Impact Assessment of the Proposal refers to labelling or certification, among others, at page 19 “Mutual 
recognition of certification/labelling mechanisms and of a trust scheme for data altruism will make it possible to 
collect  and  use  the  data  at  the  necessary  scale.”;  page  25  “certification/labelling  framework  for  data 
intermediaries”;  page  26:  “A  certification  or  labelling  framework  would  allow  novel  data  intermediaries  to 
increase their visibility as trustworthy organisers/orchestrators of data sharing or pooling.” 

 

Adopted 

35 

141.  It can also be observed that the safeguards provided in Chapter IV of the Proposal for data altruism 
organizations  (Article  18,  transparency  requirements;  Article  19,  specific  requirements)  are  not 
foreseen by the Proposal having regard to data sharing service providers, despite the possible impact 
also of these data sharing services on the rights and freedoms of the persons concerned. 

142.  This difference between the two notification regimes might give raise to interpretation  a contrario 
that the requirements established for data altruism organizations and relating to the protection of 
personal data insofar as personal data are processed (for instance, informing data holders about any 
processing outside the Union70) do not apply to data sharing service providers. 

143.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  notice  in  particular  that  organisations  involved  in  ‘data 
pooling’  or  data  sharing  arrangements  should  adhere  to  certain  common  standards,  whose 
supervision by independent data protection authorities shall be expressly recalled by the Proposal, 
related not only to the conditions for interoperability, but also to the conditions for ensuring the 
lawfulness of the processing of personal data and facilitating the exercise of data subject rights (e.g., 
through joint controllers’ arrangements pursuant to Article 26 of the GDPR). 

144.  Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS notice that the Proposal refers to scenarios (use of metadata for 
the development of the data sharing service, under Article 11(2); continued access by data holders 
and data users after insolvency of the data sharing provider to data stored by the latter, under Article 
11(6))  which  need  specifications  in  order  to  bring  them  in  line  with  rules  and  principles  on  the 
protection of personal data. 

145.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  also  remark  that  the  comments  made  under  the  general  remarks  of  this 
opinion, related to the definitions used in the Proposal and to the issue of the legal basis under the 
GDPR for the processing of personal data, are also relevant having regard to the provisions of Chapter 
III of the Proposal. 

146.  Furthermore, with particular reference to the aim of ensuring better control on the access and use of 
personal  data  by  the  data  subject,  we  recall  that  the  principle  of  purpose  limitation  is  of  special 
importance having regard to business-to-business data intermediaries. Recital (26) of the Proposal71, 
which seems to identify the purpose of the processing of personal data with the intermediation in the 
sharing  of  data,  without  further  specifications,  might  raise  concerns  from  a  data  protection 
viewpoint72. 

                                                           

70 Article 19(1)(b) of the Proposal. 
71 Recital (26) of the Proposal: “A key element to bring trust and more control for data holder and data users in 
data sharing services is the neutrality of data sharing service providers as regards the data exchanged between 
data  holders  and  data  users.  It  is  therefore  necessary  that  data  sharing  service  providers  act  only  as 
intermediaries in the transactions, and do not use the data exchanged for any other purpose. [..]” 
72 See also Article 2(4) of the Proposal:  ‘metadata’ means data  collected on any activity of a  natural or legal 
person  for  the  purposes  of  the  provision  of  a  data  sharing  service”;  Article  2(7):  “‘data  sharing’  means  the 
provision by a data holder of data to a data user for the purpose of joint or individual use of the shared data”; 
Article 11(1): the provider may not use the data for which it provides services for other purposes than to put 
them at the disposal of data users.” 
 

36 

Adopted 

147.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  the  remarks  made  under  Section  3.3  of  this  Joint  Opinion 
concerning the reuse of personal data held by public sector bodies are also relevant having regard to 
data sharing services: 

- any sharing or access to personal data must be strictly defined in scope and purpose and must occur 
in  full  compliance  with  the  GDPR,  taking  into  account  the  requirements  of  lawfulness,  purpose 
limitation and the legitimate expectations of the data subjects; 

- it should be clear that each ‘actor’ of the data processing chain, including the data sharing service 
provider and the user(s), shall provide the data subjects with the information under Article 13 and 14 
of the GDPR (oftentimes, Article 14, applicable where personal data have not been obtained by the 
data subject, will be the relevant provision of the GDPR in this context). We recommend adding in this 
regard that the data sharing service provider shall provide the data subject with user-friendly tools 
showing him/her a comprehensive view of how his/her personal data are shared, as well as a user-
friendly tool to withdraw consent in case the service provided consists of a tool for obtaining consent 
from data subjects with regard to the processing of their personal data under Article 11(11) of the 
Proposal 

-  the  data  protection  impact  assessment  (DPIA)  is  a  key  tool  to  ensure  that  data  protection 
requirements  are  properly  taken  into  account  and  the  rights  and  interests  of  individuals  are 
adequately protected, so as to foster their trust in the re-use mechanism. Therefore, the EDPB and 
EDPS  recommends to  include  in  the  text of the Proposal  that  a  DPIA  must  be  performed  by  data 
sharing service providers (and by the data user) in case of data processing falling under Article 35 of 
the GDPR. Indeed, the data sharing envisaged under the Proposal may involve large-scale processing, 
which combines data from a variety of sources, potentially involving special categories of data and/or 
personal data of vulnerable groups of data subjects. In this case, data controllers have the obligation 
to perform a DPIA in accordance with Article 35 of the GDPR. Moreover, whenever possible, the results 
of such assessments, as a trust and transparency-enhancing measure, shall be made public by the data 
sharing service provider as well as by the user(s). 

 

3.4.4 Articles 12 and 13: competent authorities and monitoring of compliance (with Articles 

10 and 11). 

148.  Article 12(3) of the Proposal provides that “The designated competent authorities, the data protection 
authorities, the national competition authorities, the authorities in charge of cybersecurity, and other 
relevant sectorial authorities shall exchange the information which is necessary for the exercise of their 
tasks in relation to data sharing providers.” 

149.  This wording provides for an even minor role for data protection authorities than the wording used 
by the Proposal in relation to data altruism organisations73, which refers to “cooperation with data 
protection authorities”. 

                                                           

73 Article 20(3): “The competent authority shall undertake its tasks [of authority responsible for the register of 
recognised data altruism organizations and for the monitoring of compliance with the requirements of Chapter 

 

Adopted 

37 

150.  In this regard, as highlighted in Section 3.7 of this Joint Opinion, the EDPB and the EDPS recall that 
many  provisions  of  this  Chapter  as  well  as  of  the  other  Chapters  of  the  Proposal  relate  to  the 
processing  of  personal  data  and  that  the  data  protection  authorities  are  the  authorities 
‘constitutionally’ competent for the supervision related to the protection of personal data pursuant 
to Article 8 of the Charter and Article 16 TFEU. 

151.  Having regard to Article 13 of the Proposal, monitoring of compliance, notwithstanding recital (28) 
which  states  that  the  Proposal  should  be  without  prejudice  to  the  responsibility  of  supervisory 
authorities to ensure compliance with the GDPR, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the governance 
and monitoring of compliance should be better defined in order to ensure a more appropriate vetting 
of data sharing service providers (and data altruism organisations) including on compliance with the 
GDPR; and to avoid, at the same time, any overlap or conflict of attribution between the authorities 
established under the Proposal (which, according to the wording of Articles 12(3) -and 20(3)-, are not 
data protection authorities) and the data protection authorities. 

152.  The EDPB and EDPS therefore consider that such better definition of governance would be provided 
by the designation of data protection authorities as the main competent authorities to  monitor and 
supervise compliance with the provisions of Chapter III of the Proposal.  

153.  The designation of data protection authorities as the main competent authorities for the supervision 
and  enforcement  of  the  provisions  under  Chapter  III  of  the  Proposal  would  also  ensure  a  more 
consistent  regulatory  approach  across  Member  State  and  therefore  contribute  to  the  consistent 
application  of  the  Proposal.  As  per  their  competence  and  tasks  under  the  GDPR,  data  protection 
authorities have already specific expertise in the monitoring of the compliance of data processing, the 
auditing  of  specific  data  processing  activities  and  data  sharing,    the  assessment  of  the  adequate 
measures to ensure a high level of security for the storage and transmission of personal data, as well 
as  in  promoting  awareness  among  controllers  and  processors  of  their  obligation  related  to  the 
processing of personal data. 

154.  The designation of data protection authorities as main competent authority for the supervision and 
enforcement of the provisions under Chapter III shall be supported with the foreseen provision under 
Article 12(3) allowing for the exchange of information between the data protection authorities, the 
national  competition  authorities,  the  authorities  in  charge  of  cybersecurity,  and  other  relevant 
sectorial authorities in order to ensure a coherent application of these provisions. 

                                                           

IV of the Proposal] in cooperation with the data protection authority, where such tasks are related to processing 
of personal data, and with relevant sectoral bodies of the same Member State. For any question requiring an 
assessment of compliance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the competent authority shall first seek an opinion 
or decision by the competent supervisory authority established pursuant to that Regulation and comply with 
that opinion or decision.” 
It also has to be noted that recital 28 -having regard to providers of data sharing services- specifies that “this 
Regulation should be without prejudice to the obligation of providers of data sharing services to comply with 
Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  and  the  responsibility  of  supervisory  authorities  to  ensure compliance  with  that 
Regulation.” The same specification is not made having regard to data altruism organizations. 
 
 
 

38 

Adopted 

155.  In  addition,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  consider  that,  when  monitoring  compliance,  the  power  of  the 
competent authorities cannot be limited to “the power to request information”, as it appears from 
Article  13(2)  of  the  Proposal.  This  limitation  definitely  stems  from  the  declaratory  nature  of  the 
“labelling  regime”  envisaged  by  the  Proposal,  albeit  it  is  not  adequate  to  the  level  of  vetting  the 
labelling  requires,  due  to the  high  expectations of  data  protection  compliance  resulting  from  such 
labelling, especially vis-à-vis data subjects. 

156.  Finally,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  emphasise  that  adequate  resources  should  be  provided  to  the  data 
protection  authorities  in  order  to  allow  them  to  effectively  and  efficiently  perform  the  necessary 
supervision. 

 

3.5  Data altruism 

3.5.1  Interplay between data altruism and consent under the GDPR 

157.  The concept of “data altruism” referred to in the Proposal covers situations where natural or legal 
persons make data voluntarily available for reuse, without compensation, for “purposes of general 
interest, such as scientific research purposes or improving public services”74. 

158.  It can be argued that the Proposal does not “create” but “formalizes/codifies” the possibility for data 
holders (defined as including data subjects by the Proposal) to make data available voluntarily, already 
envisaged in the GDPR. Indeed, a data subject can already consent to the processing of personal data 
relating to her or him for, among others, scientific research purposes.  

159.  Despite the definition provided under Article 2(10) of the Proposal (“‘data altruism’ means the consent 
by data subjects to process personal data pertaining to them, or permissions of other data holders to 
allow the use of their non-personal data without seeking a reward, for purposes of general interest, 
such as scientific research purposes or improving public services”), the concept of “data altruism” is 
still not clearly and sufficiently defined. In particular, it is unclear whether the consent envisaged in 
the Proposal corresponds to the notion of “consent” under the GDPR, including the conditions for the 
lawfulness of such consent. In addition, it is unclear the added value of ‘data altruism’, taking into 
account the already existing legal framework for consent under the GDPR, which provides for specific 
conditions for the validity of consent. 

160.  The GDPR and the Proposal concurrently apply in case of processing of personal data by data altruism 
organisations. The EDPB and EDPS support the objective of facilitating the processing of personal data 
for well-defined purpose(s) of general interest, still such aim shall be achieved in full compliance with 
the applicable data protection rules and principles. In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS underline 
that one of the main objectives of the GDPR is to ensure that the data subject keeps control over her 
or his personal data. In this context, the EDPB and EDPS underline that all requirements related to 
the consent, as set in the GDPR, need to be fulfilled. 

161.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  reiterate  that  the  fundamental  right  to  the  protection  of  personal  data 
cannot in any case be ‘waived’ by the individual concerned, be it through an ‘act of altruism’ related 

                                                           

74 Article 2(10) of the Proposal. 
 

Adopted 

39 

to  personal  data.  The  data  controller  (the  data  altruism  organisation)  remains  fully  bound  by  the 
personal data rules and principles even when the data subject has given consent to the data altruism 
organisation  for  the  processing  of  personal  data  relating  to  him  or  her  for  one  or  more  specified 
purpose(s). 

162.  In light of the above, the Proposal should specify in the substantive part that it refers to consent as 
defined  under  Article  4(11)  of  the  GDPR  and  that,  pursuant  to  Article  7(3),  the  data  altruism 
organisation shall make as easy to withdraw consent as to provide it75. 

163.  The EDPB and the EDPS also stress the fact that data processed by the data altruism organisations may 

include special categories of personal data, e.g. data concerning health. 

164.  The EDPB and the EDPS also underline that, in line with the principle of data minimisation, where it is 

possible and adequate to the purpose, data should be processed in anonymised form. 

165.  The EDPB and the EDPS welcome that the Proposal specifies under Article 22(3) that where personal 
data is provided to the data altruism organisation, the consent form shall ensure that individuals are 
able to provide and withdraw consent, for a specific data processing operation, in line with the GDPR.  

166.  In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the rules for withdrawal of consent, including its 
consequences, should be clear. It should be clear in particular how both the data altruism organisation 
and the data users comply with the requests for withdrawal, including by deleting the personal data 
in accordance with Article 17(1)(b) GDPR. The EDPB and the EDPS recall that, when taking decisions 
on ‘data altruism’, data protection impact assessments may have to be performed by data altruism 
organizations in accordance with Article 35 of the GDPR.  

167.  Scientific research often involves the processing and sharing of special categories of personal data on 
a  large  scale  and  thus,  in  certain  cases,  the  latter  could  be  considered  a  high-risk  data  processing 
according to the GDPR. Furthermore, data protection impact assessments in this context should be 
conducted with the involvement of the data protection officer (DPO) and of an ethical review board 
and, where possible and as a matter of good practice, should be made public, or a summary thereof. 

168.  According to the GDPR, consent should be given by a clear affirmative act establishing a freely given, 
specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's agreement to the processing of 
personal data relating to him or her, such as by a written statement, including by electronic means, or 
an oral statement. 

169.  Recital 33 of the GDPR underlines that it is often not possible to fully identify the purpose of personal 
data processing for scientific research purposes at the time of data collection. Therefore, data subjects 

                                                           

75 See EDPB Guidelines 5/2020 on consent, at paras 121-122: 
“121. Article 6 sets the conditions for a lawful personal data processing and describes six lawful bases on which 
a controller can rely. The application of one of these six bases must be established prior to the processing activity 
and in relation to a specific purpose. 
122. It is important to note here that if a controller chooses to rely on consent for any part of the processing, 
they must be prepared to respect that choice and stop that part of the processing if an individual withdraws 
consent. Sending out the message that data will be processed on the basis of consent, while actually some other 
lawful basis is relied on, would be fundamentally unfair to individuals.” 

 

Adopted 

40 

should be allowed to give their consent to certain areas of scientific research when in compliance with 
recognised  ethical  standards  for  scientific  research 76.  This  is  also  reflected  in  recital  (38)  of  the 
Proposal. 

170.  However, the EDPB and the EDPS underline that granting this kind of consent for purposes of general 
interest77 as such (not strictly defined and referring to a possibly different and much broader scope 
than scientific research) is not allowed under the GDPR.  

171.  Indeed,  the  Proposal,  in  its  recital  35  refers  to  “purposes  of  general  interest”  by  providing  (not  a 
definition,  but)  a  non-exhaustive  list  of  examples,  which  includes  applied  and  privately  funded 
research and technological development and data analytics78.  

172.  In light of the above, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the Commission should better define the 
purposes of general interest of such “data altruism”. The EDPB and EDPS consider that this lack of 
definition may lead to legal uncertainty, as well as to lower the level of protection of personal data 
in the EU. For instance, the requirement for the data altruism organization to inform the data holder 
(including  the  data  subject)  “about  the  purposes  of  general  interest  for  which  it  permits  the 
processing of their data by a data user” shall be in line with the principle according to which data 
shall  be  collected  for  specified,  explicit  and  legitimate  purposes  and  not  further  processed  in  a 

                                                           

76 See recently adopted EDPB Guidelines on consent, Guidelines 5/2020, in particular on consent for scientific 
research, at pages 30-32. 
77 See  EDPB  Guidelines  03/2020  on  the  processing  of  data  concerning  health  for  the  purpose  of  scientific 
research in the context of the COVID-19 outbreak, at paras 42-45: 
“42. As a general rule, data shall be “collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further 
processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes” pursuant to Article 5 (1) (b) GDPR. 
43. However the “compatibility presumption” provided by Article 5(1)(b) GDPR states that “further processing 
for  […]  scientific  research  purposes  […]  shall,  in  accordance  with  Article  89(1),  not  be  considered  to  be 
incompatible with the initial purposes”. This topic, due to its horizontal and complex nature, will be considered 
in more detail in the planned EDPB guidelines on the processing of health data for the purpose of scientific 
research. 
44.  Article  89  (1)  GDPR  stipulates  that  the  processing  of  data  for  research  purposes  “shall  be  subject  to 
appropriate safeguards” and that those “safeguards shall ensure that technical and organisational measures are 
in place in particular  in order to ensure respect for the principle of data  minimisation.  Those  measures may 
include pseudonymisation provided that those purposes can be fulfilled in that manner”. 
45. The requirements of Article 89(1) GDPR emphasise the importance of the data minimisation principle and 
the principle of integrity and confidentiality as well as the principle of data protection by design and by default 
(see below). Consequently, considering the sensitive nature of health data and the risks when re-using health 
data for the purpose of scientific research, strong measures must be taken in order to ensure an appropriate 
level of security as required by Article 32(1) GDPR.” 
See also EDPB document in response to the request from the European Commission for clarifications on the 
consistent application of the GDPR, focusing on health research, adopted on 2 February 2021. 
78  Recital  35:  “Such  purposes  would  include  healthcare,  combating  climate  change,  improving  mobility, 
facilitating  the  establishment  of  official  statistics  or  improving  the  provision  of  public  services.  Support  to 
scientific research, including for example technological development and demonstration, fundamental research, 
applied research and privately funded research, should be considered as well purposes of general interest. This 
Regulation aims at contributing to the emergence of pools of data made available on the basis of data altruism 
that have a sufficient size in order to enable data analytics and machine learning, including across borders in the 
Union.”    

 

Adopted 

41 

manner that is incompatible with those purposes (principle of purpose limitation, under Article 5(b) 
of  the  GDPR.  Hence,  an  exhaustive  list  of  clearly  defined  purposes  should  be  provided  in  the 
Proposal. At the same time, the EPDB and the EDPS notice the specification made in recital 38 of the 
Proposal79. These specification shall be included in the substantive part of the Proposal and not only 
in the recital and be accompanied by a clear distinction in the Proposal between: 

- consent to areas of scientific research; 

- further processing for scientific or historical or statistical purposes; 

- and the processing for purposes of general interest (to be defined in the Proposal). 

173.  Moreover, the EDPB and the EDPS notice that the term “data repositories” in recital (36)80, referred 
to only in this recital and not in the substantive part of the Proposal, and related to the processing of 
both personal and non-personal data, needs to be clarified. 

3.5.2 Articles 16-17: registration regime - general requirements to be eligible for registration - 

content of the registration; outcome (and timing) of the registration; 

174.  Chapter IV of the Proposal establishes the possibility for organisations engaging in ‘data altruism’ to 
register  as  a  “Data  Altruism  Organisation  recognised  in  the  Union” 81  with  the  declared  aim  of 
increasing  citizens’  trust  in  their  operations.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  underline  that  the 
Proposal does not clarify whether or not the registration is compulsory, nor whether the provisions 
under Chapter IV also apply in case that organisations engaging in data altruism are not registered.  

175.  The general requirements for registration are listed in Article 16; the requirements for registration are 
provided  under  Article  17,  and  notably  at  letters  (a)-(i)  of  Article  17(4).  The  ‘vetting’  of  the  data 
altruism organization is limited to the verification by the competent authority of the requirements 
under Article 16 and 17(4) and shall occur within twelve weeks from the date of application. However, 
the kind of verification with which the competent authority is tasked is not defined by the Proposal.  

176.  In this respect, the EDPB and the EDPS remark that a regime providing stronger guarantees, in case of 
processing of personal data, would be more adequate to ensure appropriate checks and ultimately 

                                                           

79 Recital (38): “Data  Altruism Organisations recognised in the Union  should be able to collect  relevant  data 
directly from natural and legal persons or to process data collected by others. 
Typically, data altruism would rely on consent of data subjects in the sense of Article 6(1)(a) and 9(2)(a) and in 
compliance with requirements for lawful consent in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 
In  accordance  with  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679,  scientific  research  purposes  can  be  supported  by  consent  to 
certain areas of scientific research when in keeping with recognised ethical standards for scientific research or 
only to certain areas of research or parts of research projects. 
Article 5(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 specifies that further processing for scientific or historical research 
purposes or statistical purposes should, in accordance with Article 89(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, not be 
considered to be incompatible with the initial purposes.” 
80 Recital (36): “Legal entities that seek to support  purposes of general interest by making available relevant 
data based on data altruism at scale and meet certain requirements, should be able to register as ‘Data Altruism 
Organisations recognised in the Union’. This could lead to the establishment of data repositories.[...]” 
81 Recital (36) of the Proposal. 

 

Adopted 

42 

enhance trust, than the ‘lighter’ registration regime (almost a simply ‘declaratory’ regime) set out in 
the Proposal and similar to the one envisaged for data sharing service providers. 

177.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  underline  that  the  fact  that  there  is  almost  no  requirement  from  a  legal, 
technical and organizational point of view to become a “Data Altruism Organisation recognised in the 
Union” (or a “data sharing provider”) is problematic. For instance, an organisation, entitled pursuant 
to Article 15(3) of the Proposal to “refer to itself as a ‘Data Altruism Organisation recognised in the 
Union’  in  its  written  and  spoken  communication”  (‘labelling  effect’),  will  most  probably  collect 
personal data leveraging citizens’ expectations in particular on full data protection compliance by the 
same organisation. 

178.  The EDPB and the EDPS stress that data altruism organisations need to be trusted entities. As regards 
the general requirements for registration (provided under Article16 of the Proposal), the EDPB and 
EDPS also consider that the independence from the for-profit entities of the data altruism organization 
(e.g.  legal,  organizational,  economical)  is  envisaged  under  Article  16(b)  the  Proposal  should  to  be 
clarified82. 

179.  In particular, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend introducing a direct reference to data protection 
requirements in Article 16, especially to the technical and organizational requirements enabling the 
application of data protection standards and the exercise of data subjects' rights. 

180.  In light of the elements above, and considering the possible impacts for data subjects with regard 
to the personal data processing that may be undertaken by data altruism organisation, the EDPB 
and the EDPS consider that the registration regime as laid down in the Proposal does not provide 
for a sufficiently stringent vetting procedure applicable to such organisation. The EDPB and the EDPS 
recommend  exploring  alternative  procedures  which  should  notably  take  into  account  a  more 
systematic inclusion of accountability and compliance tools for the processing of personal data as 
per the GDPR, in particular the adherence to a code of conduct or certification mechanism. 

 

3.5.3 Articles  18-19:  transparency  requirements  and  “specific  requirements  to  safeguard 

rights and interests of data subjects and legal entities as regards their data” 

181.  The EDPB and the EDPS notice that the requirements accompanying the registration regime should 
enhance  but  not  replace  the  obligations  of  the  data  altruism  organizations  as  controllers  or 
processors under the GDPR. 

182.  The EDPB and the EDPS notice that recital 36 of the Proposal is unclear in this regard, since it seems 
to imply that means to withdraw consent shall be provided by the data altruism organization acting 
as  processor 83.  However,  the  qualification  of  data  altruism  organization  as  processor,  instead  of 

                                                           

82 “In order to qualify for registration, the data altruism organisation shall: [...] (b) operate on a not-for-profit 
basis and be independent from any entity that operates on a for-profit basis;” (emphasis added) 
83 Recital 36 laws down (bold added): “Further safeguards should include making it possible to process relevant 
data within a secure processing environment operated by the registered entity, oversight mechanisms such as 
ethics councils or boards to ensure that the data controller maintains high standards of scientific ethics, effective 

 

Adopted 

43 

controller, needs further assessment, since it does not seem to be the only possible scenario in the 
context of the Proposal. 

183.  The enabling effect of the registration (as data altruism organisation) should also be clearly defined, 
especially having regard to the aspect of the legal basis for the processing of personal data under the 
GDPR84. In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS reiterate that the registration regime cannot replace 
the necessity of an appropriate legal ground for the processing of personal data under Article 6(1) 
of the GDPR for the lawfulness of the data processing. In other words, according to the GDPR the 
processing of personal data shall be lawful only if and to the extent that at least one of the legal basis 
under Article 6(1) of the GDPR applies 

184.  Having  regard  to  Article  18  of  the  Proposal,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  have  doubts  as  to  how  the 
independence of the data altruism organisation is preserved in cases where its funding is based on 
“the fees paid by natural or legal persons processing the data”85 (i.e., data provided to these natural 
or legal persons by the data altruism organization). In addition, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that 
the Proposal should better explain in what situations the data altruism organisation can charge fees 
to  natural  or  legal  persons  for  the  processing  of  the  data  ‘conferred’  by  data  subjects  for  ‘data 
altruism’. 

185.  Also in this case, as remarked regarding the re-use of data held by public sector bodies, there is an 
issue related to incentives for the controller to encourage more processing of personal data, in this 
case more ‘data altruism’. The qualification of data altruism organisations as registered entities having 
a not-for-profit character (recital 36) -which the EDPB and the EDPS welcome- only partially mitigates 
the aforesaid issue. 

186.  Moreover, the wording of recital 36 referring to requirements for data altruism organisations raises 
concerns since it refers to “voluntary compliance” also with regard to issues related to (mandatory) 
GDPR compliance86.  

                                                           

technical means to withdraw or modify consent at any moment, based on the information obligations of data 
processors under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 as well as means for data subjects to stay informed about the use 
of data they made available.” (emphasis added) 
84 In  this  regard,  recital  38  of  the  Proposal  lays  down  as  follows  (bold  added):  “Data  Altruism  Organisations 
recognised in the Union should be able to collect relevant data directly from natural and legal persons or to 
process data collected by others. Typically, data altruism would rely on consent of data subjects in the sense of 
Article 6(1)(a) and 9(2)(a) and in compliance with requirements for lawful consent in accordance with Article 7 
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. In accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, scientific research purposes can be 
supported by consent to certain areas of scientific research when in keeping with recognised ethical standards 
for  scientific  research  or  only  to  certain  areas  of  research  or  parts  of  research  projects.  Article  5(1)(b)  of 
Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  specifies  that  further  processing  for  scientific  or  historical  research  purposes  or 
statistical purposes should, in accordance with Article 89(1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, not be considered to 
be incompatible with the initial purposes.” 
85 See Article 18(1)(d) of the Proposal. 
86 Recital 36 (bold added): “[...] The voluntary compliance of such registered entities with a set of requirements 
should bring trust that the data made available on altruistic purposes is serving a general interest purpose. Such 
trust should result in particular from a place of establishment within the Union, as well as from the requirement 
that  registered  entities  have  a  not-for-profit  character,  from  transparency  requirements  and  from  specific 
safeguards in place to protect rights and interests of data subjects and companies. Further safeguards should 

 

Adopted 

44 

187.  The recital is also inconsistent (unless prominence is given to the optional nature of the requirements 
under recital 36) with the substantive part of the Proposal, Article 17(3), which refers to data altruism 
organisations not established in the Union. 

188.  As regards Article 19 of the Proposal, the EDPB and EDPS are of the opinion that an explicit reference 
to Articles 13 and 14 of the GDPR should be added, in order to ensure consistency between this 
Article of the Proposal and the obligations concerning the transparency principle under the GDPR, 
and that the necessary information is provided by the data altruism organisation and by the data 
users to the data subject with regard to the processing of personal data relating to her or him. 

189.  Moreover,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  the  current  wording  of  Article  19(1)(a) 87 seems 

unclear and difficult to reconcile with the provisions of the GDPR . 

190.  As regards this Chapter of the Proposal, an explicit emphasis on providing anonymized data when 
it is possible and adequate for the purpose of data processing,  in line with the principle of data 
minimisation, would also be of special importance to protect persons concerned from undue risks 
to their fundamental rights and freedoms, especially in case of processing of special categories of 
data. 

3.5.4  Articles  20  and  21:  competent  authorities  for  registration  and  monitoring  of 

compliance 

191.  With regard to article 20(3) of the Proposal, the EDPB and the EDPS consider that the governance 
and monitoring of compliance should be reinforced in order to ensure a more appropriate vetting 
of data altruism organizations including compliance with the GDPR, and to ensure that supervision 
on the provisions of the Proposal is clearly defined in a way that provides that, when it is a matter 
of  personal  data,  data  protection  requirements  are  fully  complied  with  and  remain  under  the 
competence of the data protection authorities established under the GDPR.  

192.  The  designation  of  data  protection  authorities  as  the  main  competent  authorities  for  the 
supervision and enforcement of the provisions under Chapter IV of the Proposal would also ensure 
a  more  consistent  regulatory  approach  across  Member  State  and  therefore  contribute  to  the 
consistent application of the Proposal. As per their competence and tasks under the GDPR, data 
protection authorities have already specific expertise in the monitoring of the compliance of data 
processing, the auditing of specific data processing activities and  data sharing, the assessment of 
the  adequate  measures  to  ensure  a  high  level  of  security  for  the  storage  and  transmission  of 
personal  data,  as  well  as  in  promoting  awareness  among  controllers  and  processors  of  their 
obligation related to the processing of personal data. 

                                                           

include making it possible to process relevant data within a  secure processing environment operated by the 
registered entity,  oversight  mechanisms such as ethics councils or boards to ensure  that the data  controller 
maintains high standards of scientific ethics, effective technical means to withdraw or modify consent at any 
moment, based on the information obligations of data processors under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 as well as 
means for data subjects to stay informed about the use of data they made available.” 
87  Article  19(1)(a)  states  (bold  added):  “Any  entity  entered  in  the  register  of  recognised  data  altruism 
organisations shall inform data holders: (a) about  the purposes of general interest for which it  permits the 
processing of their data by a data user in an easy-to-understand manner.” 
 

45 

Adopted 

193.  In  addition,  the  EDPB  and  EDPS  consider  that,  when  monitoring  compliance,  the  power  of  the 
competent authorities cannot be limited to “the power to request information”, as it appears from  
Article  21(2)  of  the  Proposal.  This  limitation  definitely  stems  from  the  declaratory  nature  of  the 
‘labelling  regime’  envisaged  by  the  Proposal,  albeit  it  is  not  adequate  to  the  level  of  vetting  the 
labelling  requires,  due  to the  high  expectations of  data  protection  compliance  resulting  from  such 
labelling, especially vis-à-vis data subjects. 

194.  The EDPB and EDPS emphasise that adequate resources should be provided to the data protection 
authorities in order to allow them to effectively and efficiently perform the necessary supervision.  
Furthermore, the EDPB and the EDPS notice in this regard that recital (28) -which refers to providers 
of data sharing services-  states that “this Regulation should be without prejudice to the obligation of 
providers of data sharing services to comply with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the responsibility of 
supervisory authorities to ensure compliance with that Regulation.” The same specification should also 
be made having regard to data altruism organizations. 

3.5.5 Article 22: European data altruism consent form 

195.  Article 22  of  the Proposal empowers  the  Commission  to  adopt,  by means of  implementing  acts, a 
“European  data  altruism  consent  form” 88.  In  this  regard,  Article  22,  as  specified  under  recital  41, 
provides  that  the  consent  form  shall  be  established  via  an  implementing  act  by  the  Commission, 
assisted by the European Data Innovation Board, in consultation with the EDPB. 

196.  In  this  regard,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  a  more  binding,  better  structured  and 
institutionalized  mechanism  than  a mere consultation  of  the  EDPB should  be  established  by  the 
Proposal. 

3.6   International transfers of data: Article 5(9)-(13); recital 17, 19; Article 30 

197.  Even if the provisions of the Proposal relating to data transfers to third countries seem a priori limited 
to only  non-personal data, issues of legal and  policy consistency  with the  EU data protection legal 
framework are likely to emerge during their application, in particular when personal data and non-
personal data of a dataset are inextricably linked. 

198.  However, although the exclusion of personal data seems to be the intention of the Commission, the 
limitation of the scope of transfers provisions to non-personal data is not always clearly reflected by 
the Proposal. In particular, Article 5(9) and 5(10), related to transfers of data held by public sector 
bodies, could apply to personal data if those personal data are at the same time confidential data or 
data protected by intellectual property rights89.  

                                                           

88 Article 22(1): “In order to facilitate the collection of data based on data altruism, the Commission may adopt 
implementing acts developing a European data altruism consent form. The form shall allow the collection of 
consent across Member States in a uniform format. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance 
with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 29 (2).” 
89 See Article 5(10) of the Proposal: “Public sector bodies shall only transmit confidential data or data protected 
by intellectual property rights to a re-user which intends to transfer the data to a third country other than a 
country designated in accordance with paragraph 9 if the re-user undertakes: (a) to comply with the obligations 
imposed in accordance with paragraphs 7 to 8 even after the data is transferred to the third country; and (b) to 

 

Adopted 

46 

199.  At  the  same  time,  the  Proposal  includes  a  provision  (Article  5(11))  which  could  somehow  be 
considered as more "protective" for non-personal data than for personal data, since according to 
the  Proposal  the  Commission  could  ultimately  adopt,  by  means  of  a  delegated  act 90 ,  specific 
conditions  for  the  transfer  of  non-personal  data  to  certain  third  countries  going  as  far  as 
prohibition91.  

200.  The  possibility  for  the  Commission  to  adopt,  by  means  of  an  implementing  act 92 ,  ‘adequacy 
decisions’  for  the  transfer  of  non-personal  data  to  a  given  third  country  is  also  likely  to  raise 
questions of interaction and consistency with the transfer tools provided for by the GDPR for the 
transfer of personal data to the same third country.  

201.  In any case, to ensure consistency with the data protection legal framework, it is important to recall 

in this regard that in case of ‘mixed datasets’ the GDPR applies, and in particular its Chapter V. 

202.  The EDPB and the EDPS notice that Article 30 of the Proposal93 refers only to non-personal data and 
its paragraph 2  seems  to mirror  the  provisions of Article 48 of the GDPR  (with the difference that 
Article 30(2) introduces a limitation in time as to the international agreements concerned). 

203.  According to Article 30(3) of the Proposal, entities (the public sector body, the entity to which re-use 
was granted, the data sharing service provider, the data altruism organisation) receiving a decision to 
transfer or give access to non-personal data held in the Union by a court or an administrative authority 
of a third country shall seek the opinion of competent authorities or bodies pursuant to the Proposal 
in order to determine whether the applicable transfer conditions are met (Article 30(3), last sentence). 

204.  The consultation of the competent authority is necessary when the decision of the court or of the 
administrative authority of the third country “would risk putting the addressee in conflict with Union 
law or with the law of the relevant Member State” (Article 30(3)).94. 

205.  This  provision,  compared  with  Article  48  GDPR,  seems  to  go  one  step  further  by  requiring  the 
consultation of the competent authority in specific cases. Therefore, in this regard, it could somehow 

                                                           

accept the jurisdiction of the courts of the Member State of the public sector body as regards any dispute related 
to the compliance with the obligation in point a).” 
90 See recital (19) of the Proposal. 
91 See recital (19) of the Proposal. 
92 See Article 5(9)-(11) of the Proposal. 
93 Article 30, International access, included under Chapter VIII, final provisions. 
94 The aforesaid conditions in Article 30(3) seem sufficient to supersede the conditions in paragraph (2), and 
thus  supersede  the  international  rules  referred  to  under  this  paragraph.  Article  30(4)  states  that:  “If  the 
conditions in paragraph 2, or 3 are met, the public sector body, the natural or legal person to which the right 
to re-use data was granted under Chapter 2, the data sharing provider or the entity entered in the register of 
recognised  data  altruism  organisations,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall,  provide  the  minimum  amount  of  data 
permissible in response to a request, based on a reasonable interpretation of the request.” (bold added). 
These provisions of the Proposal might  be inconsistent  with other Union or member State law, notably on 
judicial cooperation on criminal or civil matters. The relevance of this observation under data protection law is 
given by the fact that in case of misinterpretation of the notion of non-personal data, there is a high risk of 
public sector bodies, data sharing service providers, data altruism organizations, data re-users and data users, 
transferring personal data to a third country with (significantly) lower standard of protection for the persons 
concerned. 
 
 

47 

Adopted 

be  considered  as  more  "protective"  for  non-personal  data  than  for  personal  data,  since  such 
notification is not envisaged under the GDPR. 

 

3.7  Horizontal  provisions  on  institutional  settings;  complaints;  European  Data 
Innovation Board (EDIB) expert group; delegated acts; penalties, evaluation and 
review,  amendments  to  the  single  digital  gateway  regulation,  transitional 
measures and entry into force 

3.7.1  Article 23: requirements relating to competent authorities 

206.  Chapter V of the Proposal sets out the requirements for the functioning of the competent authorities 
designated to monitor and implement the notification framework for data-sharing service providers 
and  entities  engaged  in  data  altruism.  It  stems  from  Chapters  III  and  IV  of  the  Proposal  that  such 
competent authorities are different from the data protection authorities. Indeed, the requirements 
established under Article 23 of the Proposal suggest a ‘technical’ nature of these authorities, “legally 
distinct from, and functionally independent of any provider of data sharing services or entity included 
in the register of recognised data altruism organizations”.  

207.  In this regard, the role of the data protection supervisory authorities seems limited - under Chapter III 
- to having a mere exchange of information with the competent authority, and - under Chapter IV- to 
cooperate  with  the  latter  and  provide  an  opinion  or  decision  regarding  questions  requiring  an 
assessment of compliance with the GDPR, at the request of the competent authority.  Moreover, how 
and to what extent data protection authorities will interact with such competent authorities is not 
defined by the Proposal, as well as which financial and human resources have been envisaged to allow 
data protection authorities to carry out the tasks required by such interaction. 

208.  The EDPB and the EDPS notice that many provisions of the Proposal, whose supervision is assigned to 
competent  authorities,  designated  pursuant  to  Article  12  and  20,  are  related  to  the  protection  of 
personal data. Bearing this  in mind,  the EDPB and the EDPS  underline  that the competences  and 
powers of the independent supervisory authorities shall be fully respected as they are entrusted 
with the responsibility to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons in relation 
to processing and to facilitate the free flow of personal data , as established under the GDPR and 
EUDPR, in line with Article 16 TFEU and Article 8 of the Charter and in accordance with the relevant 
case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union95. Considering the above, the EDPB and the 
EDPS  recommend  that  the  Proposal  explicitly  acknowledge  that,  inasmuch  as  personal  data  is 
involved, data protection authorities are the main competent authorities for the monitoring of the 
compliance with the provisions under Chapter III and IV of the Proposal, in consultation with other 
relevant sectorial authorities, when necessary. As already underlined, adequate resources should 

                                                           

95 See,  among  others,  Judgment  of  the  ECJ  of  9  March  2010,  European  Commission  v  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany, in case C-518/07 available at: http://curia.europa.eu/juris/liste.jsf?language=en&num=C-518/07 
In its judgment of 9 March 2010, the Court considered that DPAs should be free from  any external influence, 
whether direct or indirect. The mere risk of an external influence is sufficient to conclude that the DPA cannot 
act with complete independence. 
 
 

48 

Adopted 

be provided to these authorities to allow them to effectively and efficiently perform the necessary 
supervision. 

3.7.2  Article 24: complaints; Article 25: right to effective judicial remedy 

209.  The EDPB and the EDPS notice that Article 24 provides that “Natural and legal persons shall have the 
right to lodge a complaint with the relevant national competent authority against a provider of data 
sharing services or an entity entered in the register of recognised data altruism organisations”, but 
does not specify the possible content of the complaint (namely, for which violation of the Proposal). 
It also seems that complaints against public sector bodies or re-users referred to under Chapter II of 
the Proposal are not possible, not foreseen under Article 24 of the Proposal. 

210.  In addition, Article 25 lays down the right to effective judicial remedy by any affected natural or legal 
person with regard to a failure to act on a complaint lodged with the competent authority, as well as 
with regard to decisions of competent authorities under Articles 13, 17 and 21 (respectively, decision 
related to supervision on data sharing services; registration of data altruism organisations; monitoring 
of compliance of registered data altruism organisations). 

211.  The EDPB and the EDPS observe that the aforesaid provisions of the Proposal on the right to lodge a 
complaint to the relevant national competent authority (Article 24) and on the right to an effective 
judicial remedy against failure to act or decisions of aforesaid competent authority (Article 25) might 
increase the risk, highlighted in this opinion, of parallel and inconsistent regimes between the GDPR 
and  the  Proposal.  For  instance,  complaints  related  to  intermediation  services  which  provide  data 
subjects the availability of means to exercise the rights provided under the GDPR (see Article 9(1)(b)) 
would  fall  under  the  remit  of  the  competent  authorities  under  the  Proposal.  In  other  words,  the 
‘substantive law’ inconsistencies and overlaps would also ‘escalate’ into administrative and judicial 
proceedings’ overlaps of competences. 

212.  For this reason, the EDPB and the EDPS call for a clear, unambiguous and rigorous definition of the 
substantive rules of the Proposal whose supervision is assigned to competent authorities, and of its 
monitoring mechanism, which ensures full consistency with the GDPR. 

3.7.3  Articles 26 and 27: composition and tasks of the European Data Innovation Board Expert 

Group 

213.  Chapter VI of the Proposal “creates a formal expert group (the ‘European Data Innovation Board’) with 
the task of facilitating the emergence of best practices by Member States’ authorities in particular on 
processing requests for the re-use of data which is subject to the rights of others (under Chapter II), on 
ensuring a consistent practice regarding the notification framework for data sharing service providers 
(under Chapter III), and for data altruism (Chapter IV). In addition, the formal expert group will support 
and advise the Commission on the governance of cross-sectoral standardisation and the preparation 
of strategic cross-sector standardisation requests”96. 

                                                           

96 Explanatory Memorandum, page 8. 

 

Adopted 

49 

214.  The EDPB and the EDPS notice that the newly established European Data Innovation Board, “consisting 
of  the  representatives  of  competent  authorities  of  all  the  Member  States,  the  European  Data 
Protection  Board,  the  Commission,  relevant  data  spaces  and  other  representatives  of  competent 
authorities in specific sectors” (Article 26(1)) would be entrusted with the tasks listed under Article 27, 
letters (a)-(e)97, which are also relevant having regard to the processing of personal data. 

215.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  welcome  the  inclusion  of  the  EDPB  as  a  member  of  the  European  Data 
Innovation  Board.  However,  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  consider  that  the  provisions  related  to  the 
European  Data  Innovation  Board  are  likely  to  impinge,  insofar  as  relating  to  the  processing  of 
personal  data,  on  the  tasks  and  competences  of  national  data  protection  authorities  and  of  the 
EDPB to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons and to facilitate the free 
flow  of  personal  data  within  the  Union98 (having  regard  in  particular  to  the  wide  range  of  tasks 
entrusted  to  the  EDPB  under  Article  70  of  the  GDPR  to  advise  the  Commission  and  to  issue 
guidelines,  recommendations  and  best  practices,  and  to  the  tasks  entrusted  to  the  EDPS  under 
Article 57 of the EUDPR). 

216.  Therefore, the EDPB and the EDPS recommend clarifying in the legal text that the data protection 
supervisory authorities established under national and Union law are the “competent authority”, 
insofar  as  the  processing  of  personal  data  is  concerned.  In  addition,  it  should  be  clear  that  the 
provision  of  advice  to  the  European  Commission  regarding  data  protection  matters  and  the 
development of consistent practices related to the processing of personal data do not fall within 
the competences attributed to the European Data Innovation Board, since article 70 GDPR explicitly 
confers those tasks to the EDPB. 

217.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  also recommend,  for  precision  and  legal  clarity,  as well  as  avoidance  of 
possible misunderstanding, renaming the European Data Innovation Board as “Commission Expert 

                                                           

97 “The Board shall have the following tasks: 
(a) to advise and assist the Commission in developing a consistent practice of public sector bodies and competent 
bodies referred to in Article 7(1) processing requests for the re-use of the categories of data referred to in 
Article 3(1); 
(b) to advise and assist the Commission in developing a consistent practice of the competent authorities in the 
application of requirements applicable to data sharing providers; 
(c) to advise the Commission on the prioritisation of cross-sector standards to be used and developed for data 
use and cross-sector data sharing, cross-sectoral comparison and exchange of best practices with regards to 
sectoral requirements for security, access procedures, while taking into account sector-specific standardisations 
activities; 
(d) to assist the Commission in enhancing the interoperability of data as well as data sharing services between 
different sectors and domains, building on existing European, international or national standards; 
(e) to facilitate the cooperation between national competent authorities under this Regulation through capacity-
building and the exchange of information, in particular by establishing methods for the efficient exchange of 
information relating to the  notification procedure for data sharing service providers and the registration and 
monitoring of recognised data altruism organisations.” 
98 See  for  instance  Article  27(a),  according  to  which  the  Board  shall  have  the  task  to  ”advise  and  assist  the 
Commission in developing  a  consistent  practice of public  sector bodies and competent bodies referred to in 
Article 7 (1) processing requests for the re-use of the categories of data referred to in Article 3 (1);” (emphasis 
added) 
 

50 

Adopted 

Group on Data Governance” or similar, to better reflect the legal status and the nature of the body 
established under Article 26 of the Proposal. 

3.7.4 Article 31: penalties for infringements of the Proposal, to be applied  

218.  The Proposal does not harmonize the penalties for infringements of the Proposal (nor specifies the 
violations  that  shall  be  sanctioned,  the  fines  for  the  infringements  of  its  provisions,  nor  the 
authorities or bodies competent to apply such penalties), providing that “Member States shall lay 
down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of this Regulation and shall take all measures 
necessary  to  ensure  that  they  are  implemented.  The  penalties  provided  for  shall  be  effective, 
proportionate and dissuasive. Member States shall notify the Commission of those rules and measures 
by  [date  of  application  of  the  Regulation]  and  shall  notify  the  Commission  without  delay  of  any 
subsequent amendment affecting them.” 

219.  The  EDPB  and  the  EDPS  notice  that  this  provision,  limiting  the  enforceability  of  the  Proposal  (the 
capability to impose harmonised sanctions), and possibly also giving raise to forum-shopping for the 
most lenient Member State, is prejudicial to the stated aim of the Proposal to increase trust in re-use, 
data sharing services and data altruism. 

3.7.5 Article 33: amendment to Regulation (EU) 2018/1724 

220.  This  Article  of  the  Proposal  amends  the  single  digital  gateway  regulation  (Regulation  (EU) 
2018/1724)99,  introducing the  following administrative  procedures: notification as provider of data 
sharing  services;  registration  as  a  European  Data  Altruism  Organization.  The  expected outcome  of 
which is, respectively: confirmation of the receipt of the notification, confirmation of the registration. 

221.  In this regard, the EDPB and the EDPS observe that the notification and registration regime, already 
analysed  in  this  Opinion,  cannot  replace  the  necessity  of  an  appropriate  legal  ground  for  the 
processing of personal data under Article 6(1) of the GDPR for the lawfulness of the data processing. 
In other words, according to the GDPR the processing of personal data shall be lawful only if and to 
the extent that an adequate legal basis under Article 6(1) of the GDPR applies. The Proposal should 
clearly specify this aspect to avoid any ambiguity. 

Brussels, 10 March 2021 

For the European Data Protection Board 

For the European Data Protection Supervisor 

The Chair 

(Andrea Jelinek) 

 

                                                           

The European Data Protection Supervisor 

(Wojciech Wiewiorowski) 

99 Regulation (EU) 2018/1724 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2 October 2018 establishing a 
single digital gateway to provide access to information, to procedures and to assistance and problem-solving 
services and amending Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 (Text with EEA relevance.), OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 1–38. 
 
 

51 

Adopted 

