DATA PROTECTION ACT 2018 AND UK GENERAL DATA 

PROTECTION REGULATION 

REPRIMAND 

The Information Commissioner (the Commissioner) issues a reprimand to 
NHS Lanarkshire in accordance with Article 58 (2)(b) of the UK General 
Data Protection Regulation (the UK GDPR) in respect of certain 
infringements of the UK GDPR. 

In brief, on 24 March 2020 a 
Team in NHS Lanarkshire created a WhatsApp Group (the WhatsApp 
Group) in which staff shared personal data of patients on the 

 within one 

 Team’s caseload. 

26 staff had access to the WhatsApp Group during its lifespan and 
between 1 April 2020 and 25 April 2022, there were a minimum of 533 
entries within the WhatsApp Group that included patient names, 
comprising of both adults and children. Of those entries, a minimum of 
215 included phone numbers, 96 included date of birth

 and 28 included addresses. 15 images, three videos, 

and four screenshots were also shared, which included personal data of 
patients and clinical information, therefore including special category data 
in the form of health data as defined by Article 9 (1) of the UK GDPR. 

In respect of the minimum 533 entries that included patient names, some 
data subjects may have been mentioned more than once during the 
lifespan of the WhatsApp Group and NHS Lanarkshire considers it 
probable that some entries were deleted when no longer relevant. 

 was added to the WhatsApp Group in 

Further to the above, 
error and had access from 
an inappropriate disclosure to an unauthorised individual. The personal 
data shared in the WhatsApp Group during this period included four 
students’ names and student numbers, one child’s name, and two 
children’s names and addresses, with an entry regarding one of the 
children whose name and address was shared also stating 

 resulting in 

As part of NHS Lanarkshire’s internal investigation into this matter, other 
communications were identified whereby staff in the 
 Team 
involved had used WhatsApp. This was found to be a one to one 
discussion with either; (a) a practitioner 

 to 
their GP mentor in respect of a prescribing course. NHS Lanarkshire could 
not provide the ICO with further information regarding the other 
communications referenced above, as WhatsApp had been deleted on the 

, or (b) 

1 

phone retained during its investigation due to changes in phone numbers 
being recycled, which resulted in the inadvertent loss of the data.  
 
WhatsApp was not approved by NHS Lanarkshire for processing personal 
data of patients, rather, the use of WhatsApp was an approach adopted 
by the 
was used by the 
that would have taken place in the clinical office
reduced office attendance due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  
 
The events set out above have resulted in personal data being shared via 
unauthorised means and secondly, an inappropriate disclosure when   

 Team involved without organisational knowledge. It 
 Team as a substitute for communications 

, after the team 

 was added to the WhatsApp Group in error. 

 
The reprimand 
 
The Commissioner has decided to issue a reprimand to NHS Lanarkshire 
in respect of the following infringements of the UK GDPR: 
 

•  Article 5 (1)(f) which states personal data shall be “processed in a 

manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data, 
including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing 
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using 
appropriate technical or organisational measures (‘integrity and 
confidentiality’).” 
 

•  Article 25 (1) which states “…the controller shall, both at the time of 

the determination of the means for processing and at the time of 
the processing itself, implement appropriate technical and 
organisational measures…” 

 

•  Article 32 (1) which states “…the controller and the processor shall 

implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to 
ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk…” 

 
The reasons for the Commissioner’s findings are set out below.  
 
Article 25 (1) of the UK GDPR 
 
The ICO understands that following an executive meeting and as part of 
the COVID-19 Gold Command Group meeting on 11 March 2020, “...it 
was determined that WhatsApp should be made available to allow a Gold 
Command WhatsApp group to be created.” Following this decision, 
WhatsApp was made available on NHS Lanarkshire’s portal for download 
within NHS Lanarkshire’s device estate on the same date. 
 

 

2 

NHS Lanarkshire confirmed there is and always has been an approved 
process for applications being deployed onto NHS Lanarkshire’s portal for 
end users to download. This process was being followed with regards to 
WhatsApp and requests were being rejected and requested to go through 
NHS Lanarkshire’s governance process. However, at the time of 
WhatsApp’s deployment there was no formally approved process in place 
and NHS Lanarkshire was adopting a new platform for managing mobile 
devices. An informal process was adopted whilst the formal process was 
being finalised; WhatsApp fell under the process and was not an 
application that was approved but was considered as an essential tool 
during the COVID-19 pandemic and therefore considered necessary, with 
the understanding that only basic information was communicated.  
 
No Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) was in place and no risk 
assessment relating to personal data processing was completed in respect 
of WhatsApp, as WhatsApp was not approved by NHS Lanarkshire for the 
sharing of personal data relating to patients.  
 
Therefore, the ICO considers the lack of a formal approval process in 
place at the time of deployment and absence of an assessment of 
potential risks relating to personal data prior to the deployment of 
WhatsApp has resulted in an infringement of Article 25 (1) of the UK 
GDPR. 
 
Articles 5 (1)(f) and 32 (1) of the UK GDPR 
 
It is understood all staff who could access the WhatsApp Group were 
deemed by NHS Lanarkshire as appropriate in handling the caseload and 
therefore would be privy to the personal data shared as part of their 
professional role. Staff also used WhatsApp on their work-issued phones 
which were subject to security controls. However, in terms of photographs 
and videos, no staff would have access to this in normal practice as there 
is no secure clinical image transfer system in NHS Lanarkshire and no 
screenshots of clinical records are permitted. It is understood staff should 
not have taken, received, stored, or shared any images or videos. 
 
In relation to the above, although NHS Lanarkshire followed the national 
policy which the ICO understands is adopted by Health Boards in 
Scotland, namely Recording (Photography and Video) for Clinical and 
Service Use Policy, it did not have a local policy specific to NHS 
Lanarkshire’s practices. 
 
NHS Lanarkshire provided copies of policies in place prior to and during 
the lifespan of the WhatsApp Group as part of the ICO’s investigation, 
such as its Use of Social Media Policy. However, the ICO considers the 
policies in place should have been more specific to prevent an incident 
such as this occurring. Specifically policies did not clearly reference 

 

3 

 at the time was part of the group 

messaging applications such as WhatsApp and there was no specific policy 
in place directly for WhatsApp. 
 
NHS Lanarkshire’s internal investigation found that “the guidance wasn’t 
clear on the use of WhatsApp when some staff enquired about this to 
their managers and as the 
an assumption was made that it was ok to use.” NHS Lanarkshire’s 
internal investigation also found that policies rarely mentioned 
smartphones as mediums for storing information, and many staff and 
witnesses interviewed during its investigation advised of difficulty finding 
up to date accessible and clear information regarding phone applications 
supported by NHS Lanarkshire. Additionally, staff reported that as 
WhatsApp stated it was an encrypted platform, they thought it would be 
secure.  
 
The ICO considers the above demonstrates that information governance 
expectations regarding WhatsApp were not understood by staff involved 
in the WhatsApp Group.  
 
In addition to the above, the ICO is aware that there were no additional 
communications sent to staff regarding working remotely which related to 
data protection and/or the security of personal data when the COVID-19 
pandemic began. 
 
NHS Lanarkshire confirmed that as there was no contract in place with 
WhatsApp, there is no guarantee of data security for any information 
shared. However, it is noted that NHS Lanarkshire confirmed WhatsApp’s 
security policy confirms that no messages are stored on a central server, 
with messages only saved on the user’s phone, and the ICO understands 
phone numbers have been recycled which has deleted the chat. 
  
As the responsible controller, the ICO considers measures that on the 
balance of probabilities may have reduced the likelihood of this matter 
occurring if implemented by NHS Lanarkshire could have included the 
following: 
 

•  Completing a risk assessment prior to making WhatsApp available 
to download via NHS Lanarkshire’s portal, to identify any potential 
risks relating to personal data such as the risk that staff use the 
application to inappropriately share personal data. 

•  Issuing communications to staff when WhatsApp was made 
available to download, to outline expectations regarding the 
handling of personal data via official and approved channels ie 
email. 

•  Developing a standard operating procedure, guidance, or policy for 

WhatsApp prior to it being made available to download, or 
alternatively ensuring existing policies and procedures specifically 

 

4 

set out expectations regarding messaging applications such as 
WhatsApp. 

•  Issuing communications to staff at the outset of the COVID-19 

pandemic to outline expectations regarding the handling of personal 
data when working practices became more remote. 

 
Therefore, the ICO considers NHS Lanarkshire did not implement 
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the security 
of the personal data involved in this matter. As a consequence, personal 
data was shared via an unauthorised means and an inappropriate 
disclosure occurred which has resulted in infringements of Article 5 (1)(f) 
and 32 (1) of the UK GDPR. 
 
Other points of note 
 
The ICO has identified that there is a delay in reporting this matter to the 
ICO 

 

 
 was added to the WhatsApp 

 Further, the event whereby 

Group in error was not reported to the appropriate line manager or 
reported internally within NHS Lanarkshire.  
 
As stated above, the use of WhatsApp was initially used to communicate 
at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, where staff were advised to work 
remotely. Information provided by NHS Lanarkshire as part of this 
investigation indicates there were issues with IT systems and staff 
workload at that time.  
 
With exception to data subjects whose personal data was shared when 

 was added to the WhatsApp Group in error, data subjects have 

not been informed of this matter. In respect of NHS Lanarkshire’s 
rationale, in brief the ICO understands this decision is based on the staff 
having access would be expected to have access to this data as part of 
their role, NHS Lanarkshire is confident the personal data has not gone 
further due to data only being held on the end-user’s phone, and to make 
affected data subjects aware “…would likely cause undue stress and 
anxiety when in reality the data had remained with the 
team.” 
 
In relation to the above, based on the information provided by NHS 
Lanarkshire, the ICO notes there is potential for distress to be caused to 
data subjects if they were to be made aware of this matter ie concerns 
that their personal data has been processed inappropriately and a lack of 
 Team and NHS Lanarkshire overall, which 
trust with the 
could discourage them from using its services. It is also noted that the 
images and videos were not held on any clinical systems. 

 

 

5 

 
Mitigating factors 
 
The ICO understands that 

 until they transferred to 

 had access to the 

 

 on 30 August 

 

. However, it is 

 NHS Lanarkshire contacted staff regarding 
, communications were sent to both all 
 Teams with the instruction not to use WhatsApp 

2021, therefore had access to appropriate systems which were authorised 
to hold patient information. 
 
Additionally, some photographs were shared with 
proactively by parents and information submitted by NHS Lanarkshire 
stated that as GPs request photographs to be sent to them, parents 
assumed they could do the same with the 
also understood that some staff took the photographs and/or videos 
themselves. 
 
Remedial steps taken by NHS Lanarkshire 
 
The Commissioner has also considered the remedial steps taken by NHS 
Lanarkshire in the light of this matter.  
 
Specifically, on 
this matter and on 
staff and 
for sharing personal data. NHS Lanarkshire subsequently seized the 
phones of staff involved which was completed by 
were deprovisioned which NHS Lanarkshire confirmed deleted the chat 
and staff have been issued with new phones. 
 
A formal internal investigation has been undertaken which resulted in an 
investigation report being produced that included recommendations for 
improvement. These recommendations included re-training staff, 
requesting staff sign that they had read and understood NHS 
Lanarkshire’s information governance policies, developing standard 
operating procedures, reviewing all policies, alongside others. An action 
plan of remedial measures including progress has been provided to the 
ICO during its investigation.  
 
Additionally, it is noted NHS Lanarkshire planned to undertake work to 
explore how videos and photographs are stored as part of the clinical 
record. 
 
Decision to issue a reprimand 
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case including the 
mitigating factors and remedial steps, the Commissioner has decided to 
issue a reprimand to NHS Lanarkshire in relation to infringements of 

. All phones 

 

6 

Article 5 (1)(f), Article 25 and Article 32 (1) of the UK GDPR set out 
above. 
 
Further Action Recommended 
 
The Commissioner recommends that NHS Lanarkshire should take certain 
steps to ensure its compliance with the UK GDPR. With particular 
reference to Article 5 (1)(f), Article 25 (1) and Article 32 (1) of the UK 
GDPR unless otherwise specified, the following steps are recommended. 
NHS Lanarkshire should: 
 
1.  Complete any outstanding remedial actions outlined in NHS 

Lanarkshire’s action plan submitted to the ICO on 10 March 2023, if 
not done so to date. 
 

2.  Consider whether it is necessary and/or required to implement a  

secure clinical image transfer system, as part of NHS Lanarkshire’s  
exploration regarding the storage of images and videos within a  

 care setting. If any new system is 

implemented, it is recommended that: 
 

2.1  NHS Lanarkshire ensures appropriate organisational and 

technical measures are in place to ensure a level of 
security of personal data appropriate to the risk.  

2.2  As part of the above, appropriate policies and procedures 

for the system are developed and circulated to employees. 
2.3  Employees are asked to confirm understanding of policies 

and procedures developed. 

 

 

3.  Ensure the following steps are taken before deploying new 

applications via NHS Lanarkshire’s device estate: 
 

3.1  Risks relating to personal data are considered.  
3.2  The requirement to assess and mitigate risks relating to 

personal data is included in any documented process 
regarding the approval and deployment of applications.  

3.3  Explicit communications, instructions and/or guidance are 

issued to employees that explain data protection 
responsibilities where applicable for any new application 
deployed. NHS Lanarkshire should make it clear when 
applications are not approved for processing personal data. 

4.  Review all organisational policies and procedures relevant to the 

circumstances of this matter and amend where appropriate, if not 
done so to date. 
 

 

7 

5.  Ensure all staff are aware of their responsibilities to report personal 
data breaches internally without delay to the relevant team in NHS 
Lanarkshire, so NHS Lanarkshire can consider whether it is required 
to report the personal data breach to the ICO in line with Article 33 
of the UK GDPR. 

 
NHS Lanarkshire should provide a progress update on the above 
recommendations within six months of the date of this reprimand, ie by 
14 January 2024. 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8 

