1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00058/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 6, 2020, it had entry in this Spanish Agency
of Data Protection a document presented by A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against COMMUNITY OF
OWNERS R.R.R. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one), for the
installation of a video surveillance system installed in *** ADDRESS.1, existing
indications of a possible breach of the provisions of article 13 of the RGPD.

The complainant states that two video surveillance cameras have been installed in the
building, one inside, on the door of a house recording the landing of the 4th
plant, and another outside on the rear facade, without any informative poster of
video surveillance area.

Likewise, it indicates that it does not know if the file has been registered with the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection.

Attach photographic report of the location of the cameras.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD), being returned by the service of
mails for absent in the distribution.

Therefore, said transfer was reiterated, being returned again for the same reason.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by resolution of February 5
of 2021.

FOURTH: On February 22, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the Parliament
European and Council, of April 27, 2016, on the protection of people
regarding the processing of personal data and the free circulation of
these data and by which Directive 95/46/CE (hereinafter, RGPD) is repealed,
typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On March 8, 2021, this Agency entered the
arguments presented by the respondent, which, in summary, indicates that the
COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R. is not responsible for the object cameras
of this claim.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

“The video surveillance cameras are owned by a co-owner of the Community and
their placement has been duly communicated and submitted to the corresponding
approval of the Board of Owners. We attach the documentation that would prove
this agreement in meeting of March 10, 2020, in which the placement is allowed
of cameras that cover the access and on the clothesline of this home, provided that
comply with current regulations on surveillance cameras and data protection
personal. (…)”

Provide a copy of said Minutes.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On October 6, 2020, it entered this Spanish Agency for
Data Protection claim for the installation of two video surveillance cameras
in the building, one inside, on the door of a house recording the landing of
the 4th floor, and another outside on the rear facade, without any sign
informative video surveillance area.

SECOND: The respondent, in his pleadings brief, has indicated that he is not the
responsible for the installation of said cameras.

To prove this circumstance, a copy of the minutes of the General Meeting has been provided
Extraordinary in which it is stated that "(...) the owners of the 4th Left request
authorization to install, at its expense, video surveillance cameras in the area of the
entrance to the house and in the clothes line area. All Owners Attending
Except for the owner of the 3rd Left who opposes, they authorize the installation. (…)”

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Director of
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

On October 6, 2020, it entered this Spanish Protection Agency
of Data claim for the installation of two video surveillance cameras in the
building, one inside, on the door of a house recording the landing of the 4th
plant, and another outside on the rear facade, without any informative poster of
video surveillance area.

The art. 5.1 c) RGPD provides that personal data will be:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which
that are processed ("data minimization").

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems
installed comply with current legislation.

The cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding intimidating
neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control transit areas
of them without just cause.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations, as this is
exclusive jurisdiction of the State Security Forces and Bodies.

The treatment of images through a video surveillance system, to be
In accordance with current regulations, it must meet the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, it can only be
installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of people who are
outside the private space where the video surveillance system is installed, since
the treatment of images in public places can only be carried out, unless
Government authorization concurs, by the Security Forces and Bodies. Either
spaces owned by third parties may be captured or recorded without the consent of
their owners, or, where appropriate, of the people who are in them.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said
purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in articles 12 and
13 of the RGPD and 22.4 of the LOPDGDD.

Specifically, at least one badge must be placed in video-monitored areas.
informative located in a sufficiently visible place, both in open spaces and
closed, which will identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the
identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights foreseen in said
precepts. Likewise, the information must be kept available to those affected.
to which the aforementioned RGPD refers.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- Installed cameras cannot get images from third-party proprietary space
and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can they affect
the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. not allowed, for
Therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors with the purpose
to intimidate them or affect their privacy without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices beyond the environment be admitted.
object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect public spaces
surrounding buildings, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the space
guarded.

III

The respondent, in his pleadings brief of March 8, 2021, has indicated that
is not responsible for the installation of said cameras.

To prove this circumstance, a copy of the minutes of the General Meeting has been provided
Extraordinary in which it is stated that "(...) the owners of the 4th Left request
authorization to install, at its expense, video surveillance cameras in the area of the
entrance to the house and in the clothes line area. All Owners Attending
Except for the owner of the 3rd Left who opposes, they authorize the installation. (…)”

After examining the file as a whole, it has been proven that the person responsible
of the installation of the video surveillance system object of this procedure
sanctioning party is not the Community of Owners, but the owner of the 4th floor
left, which must be the one who meets the requirements established in the regulations of
Personal data protection.

Therefore, according to the above,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the ARCHIVE of these proceedings as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
R.R.R.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

