18.01.2021
January 28, 2021 - EUROPEAN DATA PROTECTION DAY

European Data Protection Day is celebrated on 28 January 2021 by all the member states of the Council of Europe and marks the 40th anniversary of the adoption in 1981 in Strasbourg of Convention 108 for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Data Processing. personal character.
Convention 108 defines a set of universal principles and contains provisions to ensure the protection of the privacy of individuals in their dealings with public authorities or private entities.
The modernization of Convention 108 took place in May 2018, when the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted the amended Protocol known as "Convention 108+".
The annual celebration of this day is an opportunity to bring to the public's attention the importance of respecting the principles of personal data processing, the right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data, which are enshrined as fundamental rights.
To celebrate the European Day of Data Protection, the National Authority for the Supervision of Personal Data Processing will organize two online events aimed at correctly informing operators about the proper application of personal data protection rules, established by the General Data Protection Regulation. .
Thus, on January 27, 2021, our institution will organize online, a conference dedicated to public authorities and institutions, entitled "Findings and recommendations for public sector operators", which will present and discuss specific practical issues of application of principles of personal data processing. The main central public authorities and institutions were mainly invited to this event.
Then, on January 28, 2021, we will organize, online, the second conference dedicated to marking the European Day of Data Protection, with the theme "Findings and recommendations for private sector operators", with the participation of the most important associations and trade unions, chambers of commerce and media representatives.
The celebration on January 28, 2021 of the European Data Protection Day will be held with the support of the national television station TVR and the Bucharest Transport Company, which will broadcast the information clip dedicated to the General Regulation on Data Protection (message of public interest), made by our institution.
At the same time, synthetic information on the work of the 2020 Authority is presented, as every year, in the Brochure dedicated to the European Data Protection Day, available, along with the related leaflet, at www.dataprotection.ro/informatii generale / información de interes public / information materials.

Legal and communication department
ANSPDCP