

Bonn/Berlin, May 25, 2018


Press release 04/2018


  The General Data Protection Regulation: more rights for citizens
As of today, the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) becomes directly applicable law. The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Andrea Voßhoff, sees this as a milestone for the human right to the protection of personal data.

Andrea Voßhoff: The GDPR is a resolute answer to the data protection issues of the 21st century. It strengthens the rights of citizens and gives them the opportunity to regain control of their data. This is the only way to ensure effective protection of fundamental rights in the digital world. The GDPR will therefore make a significant contribution to successfully mastering the challenges of digitization.
As a directly applicable European law, the GDPR replaces national data protection laws. It thus creates a uniformly high data protection standard for over 500 million people in the EU. In addition, it also has a global appeal, as it does not only apply to companies and authorities within the EU. Its scope also includes those based outside the Union that specifically address the European market.
Specifically, the new data protection law strengthens, among other things, the rights of those affected, for example through increased requirements for transparency and more extensive information and notification obligations on the part of companies and authorities. Citizens can thus more easily foresee the consequences and scope of data processing and make better use of their rights. Other new rights such as the right to data portability or the "right to be forgotten" increase the influence of individuals on the processing of their data.
More detailed information about these and other ways in which citizens can take control of their data again with the help of the GDPR can be found, for example, on the website of the “Your Data. Your rights” from Digitale Gesellschaft e.V. or on the website of the European Commission.
The data protection supervisory authorities also offer a variety of information about the new law on their websites. For example, small and medium-sized companies, associations, freelancers and other smaller institutions or bodies can find guidelines and checklists from the state supervisory authorities responsible for them in order to be able to successfully manage the necessary adjustments to the GDPR.
The new law is often associated with concerns and uncertainty. Nevertheless, Andrea Voßhoff advises viewing the GDPR as an opportunity: data protection creates trust. The interest in data protection-friendly products and services is constantly increasing. Anyone who uses data protection as a quality feature can quickly generate real “added value” from the “extra effort” that arises.

Here you will find more information
Digitale Gesellschaft e.V.European Commission - Rights for citizens




contact finder

Here you can find out in just a few clicks who is responsible for your inquiry or complaint about data protection.









          public bodies

          The term public body not only includes the traditional administrative authorities, but also courts, parliaments and public foundations. This also includes social insurance, such as health insurance.







          company

          Private companies are mostly supervised by state authorities, but there are some exceptions. Private organizations such as clubs and associations also fall into this category.







          Press, radio, church

          Special responsibilities apply in these areas. Churches and public broadcasters have e.g. B. via their own data protection officers. The federal and state supervisory authorities are not responsible for other organizations either.











