1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00392/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 27, 2020, D. A.A.A. (hereinafter the part
claimant) filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency.
The claim is directed against COMUNIDAD DE PROPIETARIOS R.R.R., with NIF
***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed party).

The claimant denounces that, on July 11, 2020, the president of the
community of owners to which he belongs has published in a WhatsApp group
in which all the co-owners are included, a written request for a copy of
documentation and authorization for an attorney to represent the claimant in
the procedures related to the community and so that you can access the minutes and accounts
of this, on behalf of the claimant. Said authorization includes the data
of the claimant (name, surnames, postal address, ID number) and photocopy
of your ID on both sides. The violation of the principle of
confidentiality.

Provides the WhatsApp conversation of the Monistrol 34 Owners Community and
the authorization document with the details of the claimant.

 : In accordance with article 65.4 of Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
SECOND
 
December, Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), said claim was transferred to the respondent, so that
proceed to its analysis and inform this Agency within a month of the
actions carried out to adapt to the requirements set forth in the regulations of
Data Protection.

There is no record in this Agency of a reply to the transfer of the claim.

THIRD: On April 8, 2021, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed
admit for processing the claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

FOURTH: The General Subdirectorate for Data Inspection proceeded to carry out
of previous investigative actions to clarify the facts in
matter, by virtue of the investigative powers granted to the authorities of
control in article 57.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (General Regulation of
Data Protection, hereinafter RGPD), and in accordance with the provisions of the
Title VII, Chapter I, Second Section, of the LOPDGDD, having knowledge of the
following ends:

On April 22, 2021, it was required by the data inspection, through
postal notification, to the claimed the following information and documentation:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

1. If applicable, a copy of the documentation that could prove the legality for the

performance of the reported treatment.

2. In the event of exercising the rights regulated in articles 15 to 22

of the RGPD, accreditation of the response provided to the claimant.

3. Where applicable, report on the measures taken to prevent the

produce similar incidents.

4. Any other information or documentation that you consider relevant

On May 31, 2021, a written response to the request has been received
They provide the following documents:

- Copy of the document sent by the claimant to the Community of Owners of
request for a copy of documentation and authorization for a lawyer to
represent the claimant in the procedures related to the community and so that
can access the minutes and accounts of this on behalf of the claimant, in the
which includes the name and surnames, ID number and address of the claimant.
Also attached to the document is a photocopy of the claimant's DNI for both
faces.

- Copy of Decree-Law 10/2020, of March 27, establishing
new extraordinary measures to deal with the health impact,
economic and social crisis of COVID-19 of the president of the Generalitat de
Catalonia. Chapter IV adopts various solutions in the area of
legal persons of private law subject to the provisions of law
Catalan civil society, including cooperative societies, and in the boards of
owners in the communities subject to the horizontal property regime
during the validity of the state of alarm. Thus, the expansion of the
legally established deadlines for the meeting of the bodies of these entities
and the possibility of postponing or modifying the meetings convened with
prior to the declaration of the state of alarm. Also, it is allowed
holding meetings and adopting agreements through
videoconference or other means of communication and also the adoption of
agreements without meetings, in accordance with the requirements provided by the Code
of Catalonia and although the statutes do not provide for it. Finally, it is arranged
the extension of deadlines to prepare, approve and present annual accounts and
other legally required documents.

-

Three screen prints that appear to be relative to the
WhatsApp group conversation of the R.R.R. OWNERS COMMUNITY.
These screenshots include the following:

o Message informing that the owner's representative has been included in the group

2º 2ª (home of the claimant).

o Image of the document sent by the claimant to the Community of Owners of
request for a copy of documentation and authorization for a lawyer to
represent. Only the image of the text has been shared, which includes name and surname,
DNI and address of the claimant. The image of the ID does NOT appear.

o Message of July 12, 2020 requesting all neighbors to delete the
documents sent the day before (July 11), indicating that he had no record
that it could not be shipped.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

FIFTH: On August 12, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for
alleged infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

SIXTH: Having notified the aforementioned initial agreement and not having presented arguments,
in accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of the Public Administrations, the agreement of
start can be considered motion for a resolution. Consequently, this Agency
proceeds to dictate Resolution

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

FIRST: On July 11, 2020, through the WhatsApp group “Comunidad
de Propietarios c/ Monistrol nº 34”, the data is disseminated without their consent.
of the claimant through an attached file containing their data
personal, such as DNI and address, full photocopy of the DNI (front and back),
where your photo, name of the parents, ID number, signature and the address of another
claimant's property.

SECOND: WhatsApp dialog screenshot is provided:
(9265Chat_de_WhatsApp_con_Com._vecinos_Monistrol_34 (1)) where in the message
dated 7/11/20, it is indicated that the lawyer is added and a document of
name COMMUNICATION ADDRESS CONTACT MEETINGS .pdf.

And add in another message:

“I have just added Ms. Mireia who, as indicated in the statement she made to me
arrive from now on will be the person representing the address 2a and therefore
It will be she who will attend the neighborhood meetings. As you can see in the requirement
asks the community to deliver the bank movements, together with the
community records. Yesterday, Friday, I gave Mrs. Mireia all the
documentation requested in the requirement and currently the minute book has it
in his office to make photocopies of the minutes of the last 5 years. A
Next, I pass a photograph of the letter as the minute book is in its
office and that I will pick it up early next week.”

The claimant provides a document whose name coincides with the one attached to the
dialogue
WhatsApp:
3131 COMMUNICATION_ADDRESS_CONTACT_MEETINGS_.pdf
This document contains: the claimant's authorization to the lawyer, with the data
of both, and the copy by both parties of the DNI of the claimant.

of

 

 

THIRD: On 7/12/2020, a message is published in the same chat requesting the
deletion of the document in question, assuming that it should not have been sent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

FIRST: By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency is competent to resolve
this procedure.

SECOND: Article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, Principles related to treatment, indicates the
Next:

"1. The personal data will be:

(…)

f) processed in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the data
including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against
its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application of technical measures
or appropriate organizational ("integrity and confidentiality").

Article 5 of the LOPDGDD, Duty of confidentiality, states the following:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing, as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary to the
duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will be maintained even when
the relationship between the obligor and the person in charge or in charge of the transaction had ended.
treatment”.

THIRD: In accordance with the proven facts, it is considered that the party
claimed violated article 5 of the RGPD, principles related to treatment, in
relation to article 5 of the LOPGDD, duty of confidentiality.

This duty of confidentiality must be understood to have the purpose of preventing
leaks of the data are carried out, not consented by the owners of these.

Therefore, this duty of confidentiality is an obligation that falls not only on the
responsible and in charge of the treatment, but to everyone who intervenes in
any phase of the treatment and complementary to the duty of professional secrecy.

In the present case, it has been confirmed that the defendant, through the
WhatsApp group Community of Owners, of the personal data of the
claimant through an attached file that contained DNI, a full photocopy of the DNI,
where your photo, name of the parents, ID number, handwritten signature and the
address of another domicile of the claimant other than that relating to the Community of
referenced owners.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

The known facts are constitutive of infringement, attributable to the claimed party,
for violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, which regulates the principles of integrity and
confidentiality of personal data, as well as the proactive responsibility of the
data controller to demonstrate compliance.

FOURTH: Article 83.5 of the RGPD provides the following:

"5. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a)

basic principles for treatment, including conditions for con-
sentiment under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;”

For its part, article 71 of the LOPDGDD, under the heading "Infringements" determines what
following: Violations constitute the acts and conducts referred to in the
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

Establishes article 72 of the LOPDGDD, under the rubric of infractions considered
very serious, the following: “1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 are considered very serious and will expire after three years
infractions that suppose a substantial violation of the articles
mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:

(…)
Yo)

The violation of the duty of confidentiality established in article 5 of
this organic law.

In the present case, the infringing circumstances provided for in article
83.5 of the GDPR.

FIFTH: Without prejudice to the provisions of article 83.5, sections a) and b), of the
RGPD, in its art. 58.2 b) provides for the possibility of directing a warning, in relation to
with what is stated in Considering 148:

"In the event of a minor offence, or if the fine likely to be imposed
would constitute a disproportionate burden for a natural person, rather than
sanction by means of a fine, a warning may be imposed. must however
Special attention should be paid to the nature, seriousness and duration of the infringement, its
intentional nature, to the measures taken to alleviate the damages suffered,
the degree of liability or any relevant prior violation, the manner in which
that the control authority has been aware of the infraction, compliance
of measures ordered against the person responsible or in charge, adherence to codes of
conduct and any other aggravating or mitigating circumstance."

In the present case, based on the diligence carried out by the entity
investigated in relation to requesting that the document sent to the group of

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

WhatsApp allows us to consider a decrease in guilt in the facts, so
it is considered in accordance with Law, not to impose a sanction consisting of a fine
and replace it with a warning, in accordance with article 76.3
of the LOPDGDD in relation to article 58.2 b) of the RGPD.

Likewise, in accordance with the provisions of the aforementioned article 58.2.d) of the RGPD, in the
resolution is required to the claimed, as responsible for the treatment, that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
in a certain way and within a specified period.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: DIRECT TO COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R., with NIF ***NIF.1,
for an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD,
a warning.

SECOND: ORDER COMMUNITY OF OWNERS R.R.R., with NIF
***NIF.1, the adoption, within three months, of the necessary measures to adapt to
the personal data protection regulations, the treatment operations that
makes.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to the COMMUNITY OF OWNERS
R.R.R.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

