1/9

 File No.: EXP202103033

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On October 4, 2021, it entered this Spanish Agency for
Data Protection a document presented by D. A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against Ms. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1
(hereinafter, the claimed one), for the installation of a video surveillance system
installed at ***ADDRESS.1, facing the driveway they share
the properties of the parties, there being indications of a possible breach of the
provided in the data protection regulations.

The claimant states that his home is located in an area
residential where access to it is carried out through an easement
by the way, being the servant estate of the claimed, which has installed cameras of
video surveillance on his farm, aimed at said right of way, and at the residence of the
claimant, without, on the other hand, having installed video-surveillance zone signs in the
that it is specified who is responsible for the treatment and how to exercise the
corresponding rights in terms of data protection.

It provides images of the location of the cameras and the installed sign.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred to the claimed party, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 the
Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and
guarantee of digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD).

Said shipment was returned by the postal service with the annotation “Returned to
origin by surplus (not withdrawn in the office)”.

For this reason, its shipment was reiterated, being returned again for the same reason.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution of 15
December 2021.

FOURTH: On February 21, 2022, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter RGPD), typified in the
article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On March 2, 2022, the notification was returned to this Agency
of the Agreement to Start the Sanctioning Procedure with the annotation “Returned to

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/9

Origin by surplus (Not withdrawn in the office)”, for which it was sent to the Edictal Board
Single (TEU), being published on March 16, 2022.

There is no evidence that, at the present time, the respondent has submitted a written
allegations to it.

Article 64.2.f) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP) -provision of which
the party claimed was informed in the agreement to open the proceeding-
establishes that if allegations are not made within the stipulated period on the content of the
initiation agreement, when it contains a precise statement about the
imputed responsibility, may be considered a resolution proposal. In the
present case, the agreement to initiate the disciplinary proceedings determined the
facts in which the imputation was specified, the infraction of the RGPD attributed to the
claimed and the sanction that could be imposed. Therefore, taking into account that
the party complained against has made no objections to the agreement to initiate the file and
In accordance with the provisions of article 64.2.f) of the LPACAP, the aforementioned agreement of
beginning is considered in the present case resolution proposal.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On October 4, 2021, this Agency received a claim
of D.A.A.A. against the one claimed for having installed a video surveillance system
oriented towards the path of access shared by the properties of the parties,
an easement of passage, being the servant property of the claimed one. In addition, the
informative posters are incomplete, they do not indicate the identity of the person responsible for the
facility or where to go to exercise rights.

SECOND: Photographs of the location of the camera and the
posters.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

In accordance with the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD grants to each authority of
control and according to what is established in articles 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, it is
competent to initiate and resolve this procedure the Director of the Agency
Spanish Data Protection.

Likewise, article 63.2 of the LOPDGDD determines that: “The procedures
processed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection will be governed by the provisions
in Regulation (EU) 2016/679, in this organic law, by the provisions
regulations issued in its development and, as long as they do not contradict them, with a
subsidiary, by the general rules on administrative procedures.”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/9

II

The physical image of a person under article 4.1 of the RGPD is personal data
and its protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. Article 4.2 of the GDPR
defines the concept of “treatment” of personal data.

Article 22 of the LOPDGDD establishes the specificities of data processing
for video surveillance purposes, indicating the following:

"1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out the
processing of images through camera systems or video cameras with the
purpose of preserving the safety of people and property, as well as their
installations.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that

is essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an extension
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or
strategic installations or infrastructures linked to transport, without
In no case may it involve capturing images of the interior of a home
private.

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its
collection, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of
acts that threaten the integrity of persons, property or facilities. In that
case, the images must be made available to the competent authority in
within a maximum period of seventy-two hours from the date of knowledge of the
existence of the recording.

The blocking obligation provided for in

article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the
informative device a connection code or internet address to this
information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available to

those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
excluded from its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images
that they only capture the interior of their own home.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/9

This exclusion does not cover processing carried out by a security entity
private that had been contracted for the surveillance of a home and had access
to the images.

6. The processing of personal data from the images and
sounds obtained through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Armed Forces
and Security Bodies and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in
penitentiary centers and for the control, regulation, vigilance and discipline of the
traffic, will be governed by the legislation transposing Directive (EU) 2016/680,
when the treatment is for the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or
prosecution of criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, including
protection and prevention against threats to public safety. Outside
In these cases, said treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and
additionally by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of

Law 5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through information systems
cameras or video cameras is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this law
organic.”

III

In accordance with the foregoing, the processing of images through a
video surveillance system, to be in accordance with current regulations, must comply with
the following requirements:

- Respect the principle of proportionality.

- When the system is connected to an alarm center, you can only
be installed by a private security company that meets the requirements
contemplated in article 5 of Law 5/2014 on Private Security, of April 4.

- The video cameras will not be able to capture images of the people who
are outside the private space where the security system is installed.
video surveillance, since the processing of images in public places can only be
carried out, unless there is government authorization, by the Forces and Corps of
Security. Nor can spaces owned by third parties be captured or recorded without
the consent of their owners, or, as the case may be, of the persons who are
find.

This rule admits some exceptions since, on some occasions, for the protection
of private spaces, where cameras have been installed on facades or inside,
it may be necessary to guarantee the security purpose the recording of a
portion of public road. That is, cameras and video cameras installed for the purpose of
security will not be able to obtain images of public roads unless it is
essential for said purpose, or it is impossible to avoid it due to the location of
those and, extraordinarily, the minimum space for said

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/9

purpose. Therefore, the cameras could exceptionally capture the portion
minimally necessary for the intended security purpose.

- The duty to inform those affected provided for in the

articles 12 and 13 of the RGPD, and 22 of the LOPDGDD, in the terms already indicated.

- The person in charge must keep a record of treatment activities
carried out under its responsibility, including the information to which it makes
reference article 30.1 of the RGPD.

- The installed cameras cannot obtain images from private space of
third party and/or public space without duly accredited justified cause, nor can
affect the privacy of passers-by who move freely through the area. No this
allowed, therefore, the placement of cameras towards the private property of neighbors
with the purpose of intimidating them or affecting their private sphere without just cause.

- In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation and in particular, not being able to affect the spaces
surrounding public, adjoining buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the
guarded space.

In summary and to facilitate the consultation of interested parties, the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection offers through its website [https://www.aepd.es] access to
the legislation on the protection of personal data, including the RGPD and the
LOPDGDD (section “Reports and resolutions” / “regulations”), as well as the Guide
on the use of video cameras for security and other purposes, as well as the Guide
for compliance with the duty to inform (both available in the section “Guides
and tools”).

It is also of interest, in the event of carrying out low-risk data processing, the
facilitates free tool (in the “Guides and tools” section), which, through
specific questions, allows to assess the situation of the person in charge with respect to the
treatment of personal data that it carries out, and where appropriate, generate various
documents, informative and contractual clauses, as well as an annex with measures
guidelines considered minimum.

IV

In the present case, the claim was filed because the respondent has installed a
video surveillance system oriented towards the access road shared by the
properties of the parties, a right of way, being the servant property of the
claimed. In addition, the information poster is incomplete.

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided the evidence
indicated in the “Facts” section of this agreement.

The corrective powers available to the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data, as a control authority, is established in article 58.2 of the RGPD. Among
they have the power to issue a warning -article 58.2.b)-, the
power to impose an administrative fine in accordance with article 83 of the RGPD -

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/9

article 58.2 i)-, or the power to order the controller or processor
that the treatment operations comply with the provisions of the RGPD, when
appropriate, in a certain way and within a specified period -article 58. 2
d)-.

According to the provisions of article 83.2 of the RGPD, the measure provided for in article 58.2
d) of the aforementioned Regulation is compatible with the sanction consisting of a fine
administrative.

v

In accordance with the evidence available and which has not been
distorted in the sanctioning procedure, the defendant has installed a system
of video surveillance that could be capturing images of third parties, and in addition, the
informative poster of the existence of these cameras is incomplete, so it is
considers that these facts violate the provisions of articles 5.1.c) and 13 of the
RGPD, which implies the commission of offenses typified in article 83.5 of the
GDPR, which provides the following:

"Infractions of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance with the
paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 20,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the basic principles for the treatment, including the conditions for the

consent under articles 5, 6, 7 and 9;

b) the rights of the interested parties according to articles 12 to 22;
[…].”

For the purposes of the limitation period for infractions, the infractions indicated in
the previous paragraph are considered very serious and prescribe after three years, in accordance with
Article 72.1 of the LOPDGDD, which establishes that:

"Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered very serious and will prescribe after three years the infractions that suppose
a substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees

established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

b) The processing of personal data without the concurrence of any of the
conditions of legality of the treatment established in article 6 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679.

(…)
h) The omission of the duty to inform the affected party about the treatment of their
personal data in accordance with the provisions of articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and 12 of this Organic Law. (…)»

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/9

SAW

The fine imposed must be, in each individual case, effective,
proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with the provisions of article 83.1 of the RGPD.
Therefore, it is appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed according to the criteria that
established in article 83.2 of the RGPD, and with the provisions of article 76 of the
LOPDGDD, regarding section k) of the aforementioned article 83.2 RGPD:

In the initial assessment, the following have been considered:

- The nature of the infraction when having a video surveillance system
that is oriented towards public transit areas without just cause, treating data
of identifiable natural persons (art. 83.5 a) RGPD.

- The intentionality or negligence of the infraction, the cameras are

oriented towards the outside of your property (83.2.b) RGPD).

- The informative poster is incomplete, without indicating who is responsible for the
treatment or where the interested parties can go to exercise their rights
recognized in the GDPR.

7th

However, as already indicated in the initial agreement and in accordance with the
established in the aforementioned article 58.2 d) of the RGPD, according to which each authority of
control may "order the person responsible or in charge of processing that the
processing operations comply with the provisions of this Regulation,
where appropriate, in a certain manner and within a specified period […].”
The respondent is required to take the following steps:

- provide the images observed with the devices in question,
indicating on a location map the parts that correspond to your property
particular.

- Prove that you proceeded to remove the cameras from the current locations,

or to the reorientation of the same towards their particular zone.

- certifies having proceeded to place the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered therein (you must
identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the person in charge and
the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said precepts), locating this
device in a sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.

- certifies that it keeps available to those affected the information to which it

refers to the aforementioned RGPD.

It is warned that not meeting the requirements of this organization may be
considered as an administrative offense in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD,
typified as an infraction in its article 83.5 and 83.6, being able to motivate such conduct the
opening of a subsequent sanctioning administrative proceeding.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/9

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for

graduation of sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES

FIRST: IMPOSE Ms. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of the
article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €300
(three hundred euros).

 
SECOND: IMPOSE Ms. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1, for an infraction of the
article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD, a fine of €300
(three hundred euros).

THIRD: ORDER Ms. B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 which, by virtue of article

58.2.d) of the RGPD, within ten days, adopt the following measures:

- provide the images observed with the devices in question,
indicating on a location map the parts that correspond to your property
particular.

- Prove that you proceeded to remove the cameras from the current locations,

or to the reorientation of the same towards their particular zone.

- certifies having proceeded to place the informative device in the
video-monitored areas or to complete the information offered therein (you must
identify, at least, the existence of a treatment, the identity of the person in charge and
the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in said precepts), locating this
device in a sufficiently visible place, both in open and closed spaces.

- certifies that it keeps available to those affected the information to which it

refers to the aforementioned RGPD.

FOURTH: NOTIFY this resolution to Ms. B.B.B..

FIFTH: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of
the art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

9/9

between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with article 48.6
of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-100322

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

