1

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive SummaryCOOPERATION & TRANSPARENCYANNUAL REPORT (cid:21) EXECUTIVE SUMMARY2

ABOUT THE EUROPEAN 
DATA PROTECTION BOARD      

3

4

MAIN OBJECTIVES 
FOR 2019

7

1

FOREWORD

3

2018 SETTING UP OF  
THE EDPB AND THE 
SECRETARIAT – AN 
OVERVIEW

3.1.     EDPB’s activities  
3.2.    Supervisory Authorities’ activities
3.3.    Consultations

2

5

5
6
6

1

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive Summary2018  was  a  landmark  year  for  data  protection.  On  25 
May  2018,  the  long  anticipated  General  Data  Protection 
Regulation  (GDPR)  entered  into  application.  In  addition  to 
updating the European Union’s data protection rules for the 
digital  age,  this  Regulation  established  the  European  Data 
Protection Board (EDPB) to ensure consistent application of 
the new rules across the EEA.

The EDPB is therefore a young EU body. Yet even in the first 
seven  months  of  its  existence,  we  have  reached  several 
milestones which we are now able to reflect upon.

Our  role  is  to  ensure  the  harmonised  enforcement  of  the 
GDPR  across  the  EEA.  To  this  end,  we  endorsed  the  16 
GDPR  related  Guidelines  of  the  Article  29  Working  Party, 
we  adopted  four  more  Guidelines,  26  Opinions  on  Data 
Protection Impact Assessments carried out by the national 
Supervisory  Authorities  and  held  five  plenary  meetings 
addressing  a  range  of  topics,  from  the  EU-Japan  draft 
adequacy decision to electronic evidence and ePrivacy. 

The  feedback  we  have  received  from  stakeholders  on  the 
first year of work has been encouraging. Many people and 
companies  are  now  calling  for  increased  global  alignment 

is  demonstrating  that  respect  for 

on  the  processing  of  personal  data.  We  believe  that  by 
coordinating  a  consistent  approach  to  data  protection, 
the  EU 
individuals’ 
rights  to  privacy  and  data  protection  can  go  hand-in-hand 
with  a  flourishing  economy,  not  least  because  it  provides 
businesses with a clear framework and creates competitive 
advantages,  such  as  improved  customer  loyalty  and  more 
efficient operations.

Next year is set to be even busier. At the beginning of 2019, 
we  adopted  our  working  programmes  for  2019-2020.  The 
EDPB  work  programme  aims  to  address  the  priority  needs 
of all stakeholders, including EU legislators. Having already 
issued  guidance  on  the  interpretation  of  new  provisions 
introduced by the GDPR, the EDPB will now turn its attention 
to specific items and technologies.

In  my  view,  with  national  Supervisory  Authorities  working 
together on an equal footing and the support of a dynamic 
Secretariat,  the  EDPB  is  well  equipped  for  its  mission  of 
upholding  a  high  level  of  data  protection  across  the  EEA. 
Looking ahead, I am confident that we will continue to lead 
by example in striving for transparency and cooperation in 
the EEA, and beyond.

Andrea Jelinek
Chair of the European Data Protection Board

2

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive SummaryAbout the European
Data Protection Board

The  European  Data  Protection  Board  is  an  independent 
European body, established by the General Data Protection 
Regulation  (GDPR),  which  contributes  to  the  consistent 
application of data protection rules throughout the European 
Economic Area (EEA) and promotes cooperation between its 
data protection authorities. 

to guarantee the consistent application of the GDPR by the 
national  Supervisory  Authorities  (‘Consistency  Opinions’ 
or  ‘Consistency  Decisions’).  The  EDPB  also  advises  the 
European Commission on any issue related to the protection 
of  personal  data  and  new  proposed  legislation  in  the 
European Union.

The  EDPB  aims  to  ensure  the  consistent  application  in  the 
European Economic Area of the GDPR and of the European 
Law Enforcement Directive.

The  EDPB  can  adopt  general  guidance  to  further  clarify 
European  data  protection 
laws,  giving  stakeholders  –  
including  individuals  –  a  consistent  interpretation  of  their 
rights and obligations and providing supervisory authorities 
with a benchmark for enforcing the GDPR.

The EDPB is also empowered to issue opinions or decisions 

The Board acts in accordance with its rules of procedure and 
guiding principles.

The  EDPB  is  composed  of  representatives  of  the  national 
data protection authorities and the European Data Protection 
Supervisor (EDPS). The Supervisory Authorities of the EFTA 
EEA  States  (Iceland,  Liechtenstein  and  Norway)  are  also 
members  with  regard  to  GDPR-related  matters,  although 
they do not hold the right to vote nor can they be elected as 
chair or deputy chair. The European Commission and – with 
regard to GDPR-related matters – the European Free Trade 

3

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive SummaryAssociation (EFTA) Surveillance Authority have the right to 
participate in the activities and meetings of the Board, but 
without voting rights.

The EDPB has a Secretariat, which is provided by the EDPS. 
A  Memorandum  of  Understanding  determines  the  terms 
of  cooperation  between  the  EDPB  and  the  EDPS.  This 
Memorandum was signed during the first plenary meeting of 
the European Data Protection Board on 25 May 2018.

4

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive Summary 2018 Setting up of the EDPB 

and the Secretariat – an overview

The  rules  of  procedure  were  adopted  during  the  first 
plenary  meeting  of  the  European  Data  Protection  Board, 
which  took  place  on  25  May  2018.  Several  modifications 
were approved on 23 November 2018. 

its 

in  performing 

tasks,  several  expert 
To  assist 
subgroups  were  set  up  within  the  EDPB.  In  addition,  the 
EDPB  Secretariat  was  established  to  provide  analytical, 
administrative and logistical support to the EDPB. 
 
3.1.  
Between 25 May and 31 December 2018, the EDPB held five 
plenary  sessions.  In  addition,  there  were  36  subgroup 
meetings. 

EDPB’S ACTIVITIES

During its first plenary meeting on 25 May 2018, the EDPB 
endorsed  16  Guidelines  previously  established  by  the 
Article  29  Working  Party  (WP29).  During  the  remainder  of 
2018,  the  EDPB  adopted  four  more  Guidelines  that  aim 

to  clarify  a  range  of  provisions  under  the  GDPR.  These 
Guidelines  addressed  certification  and  the  identification  of 
certification  criteria,  derogations  relating  to  international 
transfers,  the  territorial  scope  of  the  GDPR  and  the 
accreditation of certification bodies. 

To  guarantee  the  consistent  application  of  the  GDPR  in 
cases  where  a  competent  Supervisory  Authority  wants  to 
adopt  specific  measures  having  cross-border  implications, 
the  EDPB  issues  Consistency  Opinions.  The  competent 
Supervisory  Authority  has  to  take  utmost  account  of  the 
opinion.  Between  25  May  and  31  December  2018,  26 
Opinions  on  the  national  lists  of  processing  operations 
subject to a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) were 
adopted  by  the  EDPB.  The  purpose  of  the  exercise  was  to 
ensure consistency across all national lists. 

The  EDPB  also  acts  as  a  dispute  resolution  body  and 
issues  binding  decisions.  From  25  May  to  31  December 

5

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive Summary2018,  however,  no  dispute  resolutions  were  initiated.  This 
suggests  that,  to  date,  Supervisory  Authorities  have  been 
able to reach consensus on all current cross border cases. 

The  EDPB  advises  the  European  Commission  on  any 
issue  related  to  the  protection  of  personal  data,  including 
assessments  of  the  standard  of  data  protection  in  third 
countries or international organisations. In 2018, the EDPB 
issued two such Opinions, at the request of the Commission: 
one  on  electronic  evidence  (e-Evidence)  and  one  on  the 
EU-Japan draft adequacy decision. On its own initiative, the 
EDPB also adopted a statement on economic concentration. 

In  2018,  the  EDPB  also  adopted  two  letters,  the  first 
providing guidance to the Internet Corporation for Assigned 
Names  and  Numbers  (ICANN)  on  how  to  develop  a  GDPR-
compliant  model  for  access  to  personal  data  processed  in 
the context of their WHOIS system and the second relating 
to the revised Payments Services Directive (PSD2 Directive).
 
3.2.  
Under  the  GDPR,  the  Supervisory  Authorities  have  a  duty 
to  cooperate  in  order  to  ensure  consistent  application  of 
the Regulation on cases with a cross-border component. 
Different  cooperation  procedures  exist  such  as 
joint 
operations,  mutual  assistance,  or  a  specific  cooperation 
procedure labelled “One-Stop-Shop”. 

SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES’ ACTIVITIES

Between 25 May and 31 December 2018, 255 cases with a 
cross-border component were registered in the IMI system. 
Most  of  the  cases  derived  from  complaints  by  individuals 
(176  cases).  The  rest  (79  cases)  originated  from  other 
sources. The three main topics of these cases related to data 
subjects’ rights, consumer rights, and data breaches.

In  2018,  43  One-Stop-Shop  procedures  were  initiated 
by  SAs  from  14  different  EEA  countries.  At  the  end  of  the 
year,  the  procedures  were  at  different  stages:  20  were  at 
the  informal  consultation  level,  20  were  at  draft  decision 
level  and  two  were  final  decisions.  These  first  One-Stop-
Shop final decisions related to the exercise of the rights of 
individuals,  the  appropriate  legal  basis  for  data  processing 
and data breach notifications.

The  mutual  assistance  procedure  allows  for  Supervisory 
Authorities to ask for information from other SAs, but also 
to  request  other  measures  for  effective  cooperation.  In 
the  period  between  25  May  and  31  December  2018,  397 
mutual assistance requests, both formal and informal, were 
triggered.  89%  of  the  requests  were  replied  to  within  23 
days.

No joint operations were initiated in 2018.

In 2018, the Supervisory Authorities of the 31 EEA countries 
reported  over  a  hundred  thousand  cases  at  the  national 
level. The majority of cases were either related to complaints 
or  were  initiated  on  the  basis  of  data  breach  notifications 
from controllers.

CONSULTATIONS

3.3.  
The EDPB organises public consultations on its guidelines 
to  gather  the  views  and  concerns  of  all 
interested 
stakeholders  and  citizens.  In  2018,  the  EDPB  issued  three 
consultations  on 
its  draft  Guidelines,  respectively  on 
certification, on the territorial scope of the GDPR and on the 
accreditation of certification bodies.

As  part  of  the  annual  review  of  the  EDPB  activities  – 
established  by  Article  71  of  the  GDPR  –  a  stakeholder 
survey  was  conducted,  focusing  on  20  GDPR  guidelines. 
Respondents were part of trade associations from Europe, 
North-America and Asia-Pacific. 

Sixty-five percent of stakeholders considered the Guidelines 
to  be  useful.  While  45  percent  considered  them  to  be 
sufficiently  pragmatic  and  operational  for  their  needs,  23 
percent  called  for  improvement.  For  instance,  shorter  and 
more pragmatic guidance was recommended. 

The  majority  of  feedback  concerning  the  consulting  and 
drafting  process  of  the  Guidelines  was  positive  or  neutral. 
Some  stakeholders  encouraged  the  EDPB  to 
increase 
opportunities  to  be  involved  and  cooperate  in  the  drafting 
of Guidelines. 

6

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive SummaryMain objectives for 2019

In 2019 and 2020, the EDPB aims to focus on data subjects’ 
rights,  the  concept  of  the  controller  and  processor  and 
legitimate  interest  in  the  guidance  that  it  provides.  The 
EDPB  will  continue  to  advise  the  Commission  on  matters 
such  as  cross-border  data  access  requests  for  e-Evidence, 
the revision or introduction of adequacy decisions for data 
transfers to third countries and any possible revision of the 

EU-Canada Passenger Name Record (PNR) agreement. 

In  2019,  the  EDPB  will  continue  its  mission  by  deepening 
existing stakeholder relationships and developing new ones 
with relevant parties, while also continuing to participate in 
relevant conferences and maintaining a strong social media 
presence. 

7

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive Summary8

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive SummaryContact details 

Postal address

Rue Wiertz 60, B-1047 Brussels

Office address

Rue Montoyer 30, B-1000 Brussels

Email

edpb@edpb.europa.eu

@eu_edpb

eu-edpb

edpb.europa.eu

9

EDPB Annual Report 2018 - Executive Summary