Opinion 23/2021 on the  draft  decision  of  the  competent
supervisory  authority  of Czech  Republic regarding the
approval of the requirements for accreditation of a code of
conduct monitoring body pursuant to article 41 GDPR

Adopted on 20 July 2021

Adopted

1

Table of contents

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS................................................................................................................ 4
ASSESSMENT ................................................................................................................................... 4
General reasoning of the Board regarding the submitted draft accreditation requirements 4
Analysis of the CZ SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s monitoring bodies
5

GENERAL REMARKS......................................................................................................... 5
INDEPENDENCE ............................................................................................................... 7
CONFLICT OF INTEREST ................................................................................................... 8
EXPERTISE........................................................................................................................ 9
ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES .............................................................. 9
TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING........................................................................ 10
COMMUNICATION WITH THE CZ SA.............................................................................. 10
REVIEW MECHANISMS .................................................................................................. 11
LEGAL STATUS ............................................................................................................... 11
CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS......................................................................................... 12
FINAL REMARKS............................................................................................................................. 15

Adopted

2

The European Data Protection Board

Having regard to Article 63, Article 64 (1)(c), (3)-(8) and Article 41 (3) of the Regulation 2016/679/EU
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing
Directive 95/46/EC (hereinafter “GDPR”),

Having regard to the EEA Agreement and in particular to Annex XI and Protocol 37 thereof, as amended
by the Decision of the EEA joint Committee No 154/2018 of 6 July 2018,1

Having regard to Article 10 and Article 22 of its Rules of Procedure of 25 May 2018,

Whereas:

(1) The main role of the European Data Protection Board (hereinafter “the Board”) is to ensure the
consistent application of the GDPR when a supervisory authority (hereinafter “SA”) intends to approve
the requirements for accreditation of a code of conduct (hereinafter “code”) monitoring body pursuant
to article 41. The aim of this opinion is therefore to contribute to a harmonised approach with regard
to the suggested requirements that a data protection supervisory authority shall draft and that apply
during the accreditation of a code monitoring body by the competent supervisory authority. Even
though  the  GDPR  does  not  directly  impose  a  single  set  of  requirements  for  accreditation,  it  does
promote consistency.  The Board seeks to achieve this objective in its opinion by: firstly, requesting the
competent SAs to draft their requirements for accreditation of monitoring bodies based on article
41(2) GDPR and on the Board’s “Guidelines 1/2019 on Codes of Conduct and Monitoring bodies under
Regulation 2016/679” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), using the eight requirements as outlined in the
guidelines’  accreditation  section  (section 12);  secondly,  providing  the  competent  SAs  with  written
guidance explaining the accreditation requirements; and, finally, requesting the competent SAs to
adopt the requirements in line with this opinion, so as to achieve an harmonised approach.

(2) With reference to article 41 GDPR, the competent supervisory authorities shall adopt requirements
for accreditation of monitoring bodies of approved codes.  They shall, however, apply the consistency
mechanism in order to allow the setting of suitable requirements ensuring that monitoring bodies
carry  out  the  monitoring  of  compliance  with  codes  in  a  competent,  consistent  and  independent
manner, thereby facilitating the proper implementation of codes across the Union and, as a result,
contributing to the proper application of the GDPR.

(3) In order for a code covering non-public authorities and bodies to be approved, a monitoring body
(or bodies) must be identified as part of the code and accredited by the competent SA as being capable
of effectively monitoring the code. The GDPR does not define the term “accreditation”. However,
article 41 (2) of the GDPR outlines general requirements for the accreditation of the monitoring body.
There  are  a  number  of  requirements, which  should  be  met  in  order  to  satisfy  the  competent
supervisory  authority  to  accredit  a  monitoring  body.  Code  owners  are  required  to  explain  and

1 References to the “Union” made throughout this opinion should be understood as references to “EEA”.

Adopted

3

demonstrate how their proposed monitoring body meets the requirements set out in article 41 (2)
GDPR to obtain accreditation.

(4)  While  the  requirements  for  accreditation  of  monitoring  bodies  are  subject  to  the  consistency
mechanism, the development of the accreditation requirements foreseen in the Guidelines should
take  into  consideration  the code’s sector  or  specificities.  Competent  supervisory  authorities  have
discretion with regard to the scope and specificities of each code, and should take into account their
relevant legislation. The aim of the Board’s opinion is therefore to avoid significant inconsistencies that
may affect the performance of monitoring bodies and consequently the reputation of GDPR codes of
conduct and their monitoring bodies.

(5) In this respect, the Guidelines adopted by the Board will serve as a guiding thread in the context of
the consistency mechanism. Notably, in the Guidelines, the Board has clarified that even though the
accreditation  of  a  monitoring  body  applies  only  for  a  specific  code,  a  monitoring  body  may  be
accredited for more than one code, provided it satisfies the requirements for accreditation for each
code.

(6) The opinion of the Board shall be adopted pursuant to article 64 (3) GDPR in conjunction with article
10 (2) of the EDPB Rules of Procedure within eight weeks from the first working day after the Chair and
the competent supervisory authority have decided that the file is complete. Upon decision of the Chair,
this period may be extended by a further six weeks taking into account the complexity of the subject
matter.

HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING OPINION:

SUMMARY OF THE FACTS

1.

2.

3.

The Czech Supervisory Authority (hereinafter “CZ SA”) has submitted its draft decision containing the
accreditation requirements for a code of conduct monitoring body to the Board, requesting its opinion
pursuant to article 64 (1)(c), for a consistent approach at Union level. The decision on the completeness
of the file was taken on 25 May 2021.

ASSESSMENT

General  reasoning  of  the  Board  regarding  the  submitted draft  accreditation
requirements

All accreditation requirements submitted to the Board for an opinion must fully address article 41 (2)
GDPR criteria and should be in line with the eight areas outlined by the Board in the accreditation
section of the Guidelines (section 12, pages 21-25). The Board opinion aims at ensuring consistency
and a correct application of article 41 (2) GDPR as regards the presented draft.

This means that, when drafting the requirements for the accreditation of a body for monitoring codes
according to articles 41 (3) and 57 (1) (p) GDPR, all the SAs should cover these basic core requirements
foreseen in the Guidelines, and the Board may recommend that the SAs amend their drafts accordingly
to ensure consistency.

Adopted

4

4.

5.

6.

7.

All  codes  covering  non-public  authorities  and  bodies  are  required  to  have  accredited  monitoring
bodies. The GDPR expressly request SAs, the Board and the Commission to “encourage the drawing up
of codes of conduct intended to contribute to the proper application of the GDPR, taking account of
the  specific  features  of the  various  processing  sectors  and  the  specific  needs  of  micro,  small  and
medium  sized  enterprises.” (article  40  (1)  GDPR). Therefore, the  Board  recognises  that  the
requirements need to work for different types of codes, applying to sectors of diverse size, addressing
various interests at stake and covering processing activities with different levels of risk.

In some areas, the Board will support the development of harmonised requirements by encouraging
the SA to consider the examples provided for clarification purposes.

When this opinion remains silent on a specific requirement, it means that the Board is not asking the
CZ SA to take further action.

This opinion does not reflect upon items submitted by the CZ SA, which are outside the scope of article
41 (2) GDPR, such as references to national legislation. The Board nevertheless notes that national
legislation should be in line with the GDPR, where required.

Analysis of the CZ SA’s accreditation requirements for Code of Conduct’s
monitoring bodies

8.

Taking into account that:

a. Article  41  (2)  GDPR  provides  a  list  of  accreditation  areas  that  a  monitoring  body  need  to

address in order to be accredited;

b. Article 41 (4) GDPR requires that all codes (excluding those covering public authorities per

Article 41 (6)) have an accredited monitoring body; and

c. Article 57 (1) (p) & (q) GDPR provides that a competent supervisory authority must draft and
publish the accreditation requirements for monitoring bodies and conduct the accreditation
of a body for monitoring codes of conduct.

the Board is of the opinion that:

GENERAL REMARKS

9.

10.

The  Board  notes  that  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  do  not  follow  the  structure  set  out  in
Section 12 of the Guidelines. For example, the sections on “Independence” including “Accountability”,
Review mechanism” and “legal status” are missing in the draft accreditation requirements. In this
regards, for the sake of clarity the Board considers that the overall structure of the document should
be improved. Therefore, with the aim to facilitate the assessment and ensure consistency , the Board
recommends the CZ SA to follow the structure of the Guidelines in the draft requirements and to add
the missing sections .

The  Board  observes  that  section  8  (Application  for  accreditation)  of  the  draft  accreditation
requirements indicates a list of evidence to support the application for accreditation, which however
does not include all the requirements of the Guidelines. Therefore, the Board recommends that CZ SA
include in the draft accreditation requirements examples of evidences related to all requirements.

Adopted

5

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

In addition, with the aim to facilitate the clarity of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board
encourages the CZ SA to include in the respective sections of the requirements the examples of the
information or documents confirming that the relevant requirements are met.

The Board observes that the last paragraph of the introductory part of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation
requirements (page 2) refers to a code of conduct as a tool for international transfers. As part of the
work program for 2020-2021, the Board is currently working on Guidelines on Codes of Conduct as a
tool for transfers. Since the Guidelines have not been  adopted  yet, the  Board  considers  that  this
reference in  the draft  accreditation  requirements  might  create  confusion.  Therefore,  the  Board
recommends the CZ SA to delete this section.

The  Board  notes  that subsection  1.5  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements refers to  offences
committed by  the  monitoring  body  or  the  statutory  representative  of  the  monitoring  body “in
connection with the line of business”. Taking into account the nature of the activities of the monitoring
bodies, the Board encourages the CZ SA to clarify and further elaborate on this requirement in order
to ensure that the above wording refers to activities not related to monitoring functions.

For the sake of consistency and clarity, the Board encourages the CZ SA to replace throughout the draft
accreditation  requirements  the  term  “the  Office  for  Personal  Data  Protection”  with  the  term
“Competent Supervisory Authority” in line with the terminology used in the Guidelines. At the same
time the Board encourages the CZ SA to introduce in the definition section of the draft requirements
a definition  of the  term «Competent Supervisory  Authority»,  to  be  understood  as  the  Office  for
Personal Data Protection.

As regards section 2 of the accreditation requirements, the Board encourages the CZ SA to clarify that
the accreditation may be reviewed periodically, to provide transparent information on what happens
after  the  expiry of  the  validity  of  the accreditation and  explain  how  periodic reviews will  work  in
practice even before 5 years period of validity.

The Board notes that in section 2. “Monitoring agreements concluded between a monitoring body and
a monitored entity” of the CZ SA draft accreditation requirements, it is stated that the relationship
between  the  monitoring  body  and  the  code  members  is  subject  to  regulation  by  private  law
agreement. The Board highlights that the binding nature of the rules of the code of conduct, including
those providing for the monitoring mechanism, would result from the (mere) adhesion of the code
members to the code, as well as from their membership of the representative association. Whereas
contractual arrangements are not, per se, excluded, the Board is of the opinion that the essential
elements of the monitoring body’s function should be included in the code itself, because they are not
negotiable. Additional clauses may be added in the form of an agreement or contract between the
monitoring  body  and  the code member,  as  long  as they  do  not entail  a variation  in  the essential
elements of the monitoring body’s function, as set out in the code. Therefore, the Board recommends
the CZ SA to specify that the core elements of the monitoring body’s function will be included in the
code of conduct.

Along  the  same  lines,  under  the  same  section, the  Board  also  recommends  deleting  the  relevant
requirements for agreements between the monitoring body and monitored entities in section 2. of the
draft accreditation requirements.

As regards subsection 1.3 of the draft accreditation requirements the Board recommends the CZ SA to
modify this requirement in order to specify that the monitoring body shall be able to demonstrate that
all processing operations, which it performs for its monitoring tasks, are compliant with the GDPR.

Adopted

6

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

In  addition,  the  Board  encourages  the  CZ  SA  to  revise  the  requirements  in  order  to  avoid
misunderstandings  stemming  from  the  translation  of  the  document  into  English  (for example,  in
section  1.1 the term “a natural person engaged in business” should be replaced by “ natural persons
acting as undertaking ”; section 1.5 should refer to “integrity requirements”, instead of “impeccability
requirements”; the reference  to the “importance  and complexity of the processings” under section
6.3  should  be  replaced  by  “nature  and  complexity  of  the  processings”;
section  7.3 should  read
“complaints  and  petitions  handling  procedures »,  instead  of  “complaints  and  concerns  handling
procedures” (in the same way sections 15.1.2 and 15.1.4), as the Board understands it is a translation
mistake).

The Board is of the opinion that subsection 9.1 and 11.1 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements
consist of elements which seem not to be necessary for the performance of monitoring bodies and is
unclear. Therefore, with a view to avoiding inconsistencies and ambiguities the Board encourages the
CZ SA to revise these requirements accordingly.

INDEPENDENCE

According to the Board, independence for a monitoring body should be understood as a series of
formal rules and procedures for the appointment, terms of reference and operation of the monitoring
body.  In  Board’s  view  these  rules  and  procedures  will  allow  the  monitoring  body  to  perform  the
monitoring of compliance with a code of conduct in complete autonomy, without being directly or
indirectly influenced, nor subject to any form of pressure that might affect its decisions. This means
that a monitoring body should not be in a position to receive any instructions regarding the exercise
of its task from code members, the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies, or from
the  code  owner  itself. Therefore,  the  monitoring  body  must  demonstrate  impartiality  and
independence  in  relation  to  four main  areas:  legal  and  decision-making  procedures,  financial
resources, organisational resources and structure and accountability. However, the Board observes
that the CZ SA’s accreditation requirements do not cover entirely the four areas outlined and are not
structured in line with the Guidelines. In particular, there are no specific references to the legal and
decision-making procedures, organisational resources and accountability of the monitoring body. The
Board recommends the CZ SA to further develop the requirements concerning independence of the
monitoring body, in line with the four areas. Furthermore, the Board encourages the CZ SA to include
practical examples that provide a clearer view on how the independence can be demonstrated in the
four areas.

Furthermore, for  the  sake  of  consistency  and  clarity,  the Board encourages  the  CZ  SA  to  replace
throughout  the  draft  accreditation  requirements  the  terms  “impartiality”  with  the  term
“independence” in line with the terminology used in the Guidelines and keep the term impartiality
only in the context of organizational independence of MB.

Taking into account definition of the monitoring body specified in the definitions section, the Board
understands that the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements apply to both internal and external
monitoring bodies. Where the monitoring body is part of the code owner organisation, particular focus
must be made on their ability to act independently. The Board is of the opinion that internal monitoring
bodies cannot be set up within a code member, but only within a code owner. Therefore, the Board
recommends that this is clarified and reflected in the text of the draft accreditation requirements.
Furthermore,  the  Board  encourages  the  CZ  SA  to  tailor  the  examples  taking  into  account  that
monitoring bodies can be external or internal monitoring bodies.

Adopted

7

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

The Board encourages the CZ SA to add a requirement to prove that a specific separated budget is
allocated to internal monitoring bodies by the code owner.

The Board observes that subsection 4.2 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements specifies s that
the monitoring body shall have “adequate resources to cover costs of liability for its activities (e.g.
financial reserves, insurances) ”. The Board is of the opinion that this obligation could prevent small or
medium monitoring bodies from getting accredited. Therefore, the Board recommends the CZ SA to
either  delete  this  requirement  or  to  soften  the  wording  and  refer  to  the  monitoring  body’s
responsibilities in general.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

The Board notes that the requirements relating to the conflict of interest are partly specified in section
3. (Management of impartiality) and section 8.2.3 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements. The
Board  recommends  to  redraft the above mentioned  provisions  in order to  cover  all  requirements
relating to conflict of interest.

The  Board  observes  that  there  is  no  reference  to  internal  monitoring  bodies,  which  should  be
appropriately protected from any sort of sanctions or interference by the code owner, other relevant
bodies, or members of the code, as a consequence of the fulfilment of its tasks (paragraph 68, page 23
of  the  Guidelines).  The  Board  encourages  the  CZ  SA  to  provide  examples  that  include  internal
monitoring bodies.

As regards subsection 3.3 of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board encourages the CZ SA to
clearly state that in order to avoid conflict of interest, the monitoring body must, in particular, be free
of external (direct or indirect) influence and, therefore, it shall not seek nor take any instructions from
any person or organisation.

As stated in the Guidelines, the independence of the monitoring body should be demonstrated in
relation also to the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies (paragraph 63 of the
Guidelines). Therefore, the Board recommends that the CZ SA specify this requirement in the draft
accreditation requirements.

30. Moreover, the Board recommends the CZ SA to clarify that the monitoring body should have its own

staff chosen by them or other body independent of the code member.

31.

32.

33.

The Board encourages the CZ SA to add examples in the requirements in this respect. For example,
employees of the monitoring body should be required to report possible conflicts of interest

As regards section 3.2, the Board encourages the CZ SA to re-draft this requirement in line with the
Guidelines.

As regards subsection  8.2.3 indent 3 as follows: “the commitment of the statutory representative that
the monitoring body shall avoid conflict of interest when carrying out a monitoring, it means that the
monitoring body shall not carry out monitoring for the code members organizationally or financially
connected to it (through ownership, management, staff, resources, financing or contracts other than
the monitoring agreements, etc.)”, the Board agrees that the risk of impartiality of the monitoring body
may arise  from a wide range of activities carried out by the monitoring body vis-à-vis  code owners
(especially in the situation where the  monitoring body  is an internal  one) or  other relevant bodies

Adopted

8

34.

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

of  the  sector concerned. However, the Board  recognizes that  providing non-supervisory services,
purely administrative or organisational assistance or support activities may not involve a  conflict of
interest. Therefore the Board encourages the CZ SA to further elaborate on this requirement in line
with the Guidelines and provide examples of situations where there is a conflict of interests and where
there is not.

EXPERTISE

The Board agrees with the CZ SA that expertise needs to involve the subject-matter (sector) of the
code, in which case the relevant requirements that must be fulfilled can be specific, based on the sector
to which the code applies. In this context, the Board recommends to clarify section 6.3 that different
interests involved and the risks of the processing activities addressed by the code should also be taken
into account.

As regards subsection 6.3.1, the Board recommends to add also the reference to the experience with
respect to the data protection law.

The Board recommends to add the term “expert” at the beginning of the subsection 6.3.3 of the draft
accreditation requirements.

The Board observes that according to subsection 6.3.5 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements
“Personnel maintain up-to date knowledge in technical and audit skills, especially in the course of
changes in the legal framework, the relevant risks, the state of the art and the implementation costs
of technical and organizational measures”. The Board recommends that the CZ SA modify and further
clarify this requirement  accordingly, including  by deleting the  last  part  of  the  sentence:  “the
implementation costs of technical and organizational measures”.

ESTABLISHED PROCEDURES AND STRUCTURES

The  Board  observes  that  the  CZ  SA  under  section 10  (Monitoring) of  the draft  accreditation
requirements refers to the criteria to be taken into account for the assessment of the established
procedures to monitor compliance of the code members with the code. However, the Board notes that
the complexity and the risks refer to the code concerned and the data processing activities to which
the code applies, are not part of such criteria. Therefore, the Board encourages the CZ SA to amend
this section so to include the complexity and the risks referring to the code at stake and the data
processing activities to which the code applies.

As  regards  subsection  10.1.2  of  the  draft  accreditation  requirements,  the  Board underlines that
according to paragraph 72 of the Guidelines, procedures and structures to actively and effectively
monitor  compliance  by  members  of  the  code will  be  required.  These  could  include  random  or
unannounced  audits,  annual  inspections,  regular reporting  and  the  use  of  questionnaires.  The
monitoring procedures can be designed in different ways as long as they take into account factors such
as the risks raised by the data processing in scope of the code, complaints received or specific incidents
and the number of members of the code etc. Consideration could be given to the publication of audit
reports as well as to the findings of periodic reporting from controllers and processors within the scope
of the code. Therefore, the Board recommends to add some examples in the requirements, such as
random or unannounced audits, annual inspections, regular reporting and the use of questionnaires.

Adopted

9

In addition, it should be mentioned that the monitoring procedures can be designated in different ways
as long as they take into account factors such as the risks raised by the data processing in scope of the
code, complaints received or specific incidents and the number of members of the code.

40.

41.

TRANSPARENT COMPLAINT HANDLING

Regarding section 15 of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements, the Board acknowledges that the
monitoring body should have “implemented appropriated procedure of handling complaints about
infringements of the code and procedure of handling appeals against the monitoring results”. In this
regard, the Board notes that the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements (subsection 15.1.4) include
a timeframe for answering complaints. In this regard, the procedure shall envisage that the monitoring
body has to inform the complainant with progress reports or the outcome of the complaint, within a
reasonable time frame. This period could be extended when necessary, taking into account the size of
the organisation under investigation, as well as the size of the investigation. Therefore, the Board
recommends that the requirement is redrafted accordingly.

The  Board  notices  that  under  section  12.1  of  the  CZ  SA’s draft accreditation  requirements “The
monitoring  body  shall  prepare  a  list  of  applicable  remedies  together with  the  rules  for  their
application”. This is not in line with Article 40 (4) GDPR, which requires that the corrective measures
must be determined in the code of conduct. Therefore, the Board recommends the CZ SA to add a
reference to the list of sanctions set out in the code of conduct in cases of infringements of the code
by a controller or processor adhering to it.

42. Moreover, the Board recommends the CZ SA to reflect in the draft requirements paragraph 77 of the
Guidelines according to which “where required, the monitoring body should be able to inform the code
member, the code owner, the competent SA and all concerned SAs about the measures taken and its
justification without undue delay. Moreover, in the case where a Lead Supervisory Authority (LSA) for
a transnational code member is identifiable, the monitoring body should also appropriately inform the
LSA as to it sanctions”.

COMMUNICATION WITH THE CZ SA

43.

44.

45.

For the sake of consistency, the Board encourages the CZ SA to add in the title of the section 14 of the
draft requirements the term “communication” in line with the Guidelines.

The Board observes that the  CZ  SA  in  its  requirements,  in subsection 14. 1, refers to “changes that
might have an impact on its ability to carry out monitoring”. The Board is of the opinion that only
“substantial changes” should be reported to the competent SA. Therefore, the Board recommends
that the CZ SA modify this requirement so to address the reporting of any substantial changes (e.g. any
changes that  impact  the  monitoring  body’s  ability  to  perform  its  function)  to  the  CZ  SA  in  the
accreditation requirements.

Section 14. of the CZ SA’s draft accreditation requirements develops several situations in which the
monitoring body is obliged to notify the CZ SA. The Board considers that the information on the
functioning of the monitoring body’s activities (e.g., actions taken by the monitoring body) should also
be available to the CZ SA upon its request, and encourages the CZ SA to include such reference under
this section.

Adopted

10

46. With regard to subsection 14.6 of the draft accreditation requirements, the Board notes that it refers
to the obligation of the monitoring body to take action following CZ SA’s findings on non-compliance
with the Code. The Board encourages the CZ SA to clarify and develop this requirement accordingly, in
particular with regard to the conditions, circumstances and taking into account the competences of
the SA and the monitoring body.

47.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52.

In the opinion of the Board, subsection 14.5 of the draft accreditation requirements better fits into the
section relating to the Review mechanisms. The Board encourages the CZ SA to develop and move this
requirement to the relevant section of the draft accreditation requirements.

The  Board  observes  that  in  the  CZ  SA’s draft  accreditation  requirements  there  are  no  specific
references to the requirement foreseen by paragraph 79 of the Guidelines. The Board recommends
the CZ SA to ensure compliance with this requirement.

REVIEW MECHANISMS

The Board observes that there is no reference to the role of the monitoring body within the review
mechanisms  of  the  code.  According  to  section  80  of  the  Guidelines “a  code  will  need  to  set  out
appropriate review mechanisms to ensure that the code remains relevant and continues to contribute
to the proper application of the GDPR. Review mechanisms should also be put in place to adapt to any
changes  in  the  application  and  interpretation  of  the  law  or  where  there  are  new  technological
developments which may have an impact upon the data processing carried out by its members or the
provisions of the code”. Therefore, the Board recommends the CZ SA to appropriately enrich this
requirement.

LEGAL STATUS

The Board observes that the obligation of Article 41(4) of the GDRP together with the section 12.8 of
the Guidelines is not reflected in the draft requirements. Therefore, the Board recommends that the
CZ SA follow the Guidelines in terms of structure and develop missing section on legal status in order
to specify that the monitoring body and its related governance structures need to be created in a
manner that the code owners can demonstrate that the monitoring body has the appropriate standing
to carry out its role under Article 41(4) of the GDPR.

The Board notes that under subsection 1.6 of the draft accreditation requirements “the monitoring
body shall be established within the European Economic Area or Switzerland”. The Board is of the
opinion that the monitoring body requires an establishment in the EEA. This is to ensure that they can
uphold data subject rights, deal with complaints and that GDPR is  enforceable and  also ensures
supervision  by  the  competent supervisory authority. Therefore, the Board recommends that the CZ
SA remove the reference to Switzerland.

The Board underlines that the monitoring body should have financial and other resources, and the
necessary procedures to ensure the monitoring body activity. Thereby, the Board encourages the CZ
SA to specify that the monitoring body shall have adequate financial and other resources and the
necessary procedures to ensure its functioning.

53. Moreover,  the  code  of  conduct  itself  will  need  to  demonstrate  that  the  operation  of  the  code’s
monitoring mechanism is sustainable over time, covering worst-case scenarios, such as the monitoring
body being unable to perform the monitoring function. In this regard, it would be advisable to require

Adopted

11

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

that a monitoring body demonstrates that it can deliver the code of conduct’s monitoring mechanism
over a suitable period of time. Therefore, the Board recommends the CZ SA to explicitly require that
monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function over time.

The  Board  notes  that  the CZ    SA’s  accreditation  requirements    do    not    refer  generally  to    sub-
contracting except for a restriction specified in subsection 3.2. The Board is of the opinion that the sub-
contractors should be able to ensure the same degree of safeguards provided by the monitoring body
in performing their activities, including the same level of competence and expertise. Therefore the
Board recommends  that  the  CZ  SA  indicate  that  the  obligations applicable  to  the monitoring body
are applicable in the same way to subcontractors.

In addition, the  Board  recommends  that the CZ  SA  clarify whether  the  monitoring  body  may
have  recourse  to subcontractors  and under which  terms  and  conditions.

The Board observes that under subsection 3.2 under paragraph 3 (Management of impartiality) "the
monitoring body is not allowed to outsource any activities of the monitoring body, except of using
individual external auditors and technical experts for evaluation activities ".  In the opinion of the Board
to a limited extent and under certain conditions it is possible for the monitoring body to outsource
certain activities. Therefore, the Board encourages the CZ SA to clarify in the requirements whether
"any  activities  of  the  monitoring  body"  refer  to  the  decision-making. Moreover,  the  Board
recommends  that  the  CZ  SA  indicate  that  the  monitoring  body  remains  responsible  to  the  SA  for
monitoring in all cases.

In the opinion of the Board the monitoring body should be the ultimate responsible for all the decisions
taken related to its monitoring function. Therefore, the Board encourages the CZ SA to specify that,
notwithstanding the sub-contractors’ responsibility and obligations, the monitoring body is always the
ultimate responsible for the decision-making and for compliance.

Along  the same  lines,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that,  even  when  subcontractors  are  used,  the
monitoring body shall ensure effective monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity.
The  Board  recommends  the  CZ  SA  to  explicitly  add  this  obligation  in  the  draft  accreditation
requirements.

The Board underlines that a natural person acting as a monitoring body must demonstrate adequate
resources that allow it to act as a monitoring body. The Board encourages the CZ SA to  specify how in
case of natural persons the necessary expertise (legal and technical) is ensured and to add a clear
reference to the necessity of ensuring and documenting how the monitoring role is guaranteed over a
long term and how it can deliver the code's monitoring mechanism over a suitable period of time.

CONCLUSIONS / RECOMMENDATIONS

60.

The draft accreditation requirements of the Czech  Supervisory Authority may lead to an inconsistent
application of the accreditation of monitoring bodies and the following changes need to be made:

61.

Regarding general remarks the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

1.

follow the structure of the Guidelines in the draft accreditation requirements and add

the missing sections;

2.

include in the draft accreditation requirements examples of evidences related to all

requirements;

Adopted

12

3.

delete  the  last  paragraph  under  the  introductory  part  of  the  draft  accreditation

requirements (page 2);

4.

specify that the core elements of the monitoring body’s function will be included in

the code of conduct;

5.

delete the relevant requirements for agreements between the monitoring bodies and

monitored entities in section 2. of the draft accreditation requirements;

6.

modify subsection 1.3 in order to specify that the monitoring body shall be able to
demonstrate that all processing operations it performs for its monitoring tasks are compliant with the
GDPR.

62.

Regarding independence the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

1.

further develop the requirements concerning impartiality and independence of the

monitoring body, in line with the four areas;

2.

clarify that the internal monitoring body cannot be set up within a code member, but

only within a code owner;

either  delete requirement  specified  in  section  4.2. or  soften  the  wording  and  refer  to  the

3.
monitoring body’s responsibilities in general.

63.

Regarding conflict of interest the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

1. redraft section 3 and subsection 8.2.3  in order to cover all requirements relating to conflict of

interest;

2.  specify that the independence of the monitoring body should be demonstrated in relation also

to the profession, industry or sector to which the code applies;

3.

clarify that  the  monitoring  body  should  have  its  own  staff  chosen  by them  or  other  body

independent of the code.

64.

Regarding expertise the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

1. clarify section 6.3 that different interests involved and the risks of the processing activities

addressed by the code should also be taken into account;

2. add in subsection 6.3.1 reference to the experience with respect to the data protection law;

3. add  the  term  “  expert”  at  the  beginning  of  the  section  6.3.3  of  the  draft  accreditation

requirements;

4. modify and further clarify subsection 6.3.5, including deleting the last part of the sentence:

“the implementation costs of technical and organizational measures”.

65.

Regarding established procedures and structures the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

Adopted

13

1.
add  some  examples  in  the  requirements,  such  as  random  or  unannounced  audits,  annual
inspections, regular reporting and the use of questionnaires. In addition, it should be mentioned
that  the  monitoring  procedures  can  be  designated  in  different  ways  as  long as  they  take  into
account factors such as the risks raised by the data processing in scope of the code, complaints
received or specific incidents and the number of members of the code.

66.

Regarding transparent complaint handling the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

1.  modify section 15 in order to envisage in the procedure that the monitoring body has to inform
the complainant with progress reports or the outcome of the complaint, within a reasonable time
frame.  This  period  could  be  extended  when  necessary,  taking  into  account  the  size  of  the
organisation under investigation, as well as the size of the investigation;

2.  add a reference to the list of sanctions set out in the code of conduct in cases of infringements
of the code by a controller or processor adhering to it;

3.
reflect in the draft accreditation requirements paragraph 77 of the Guidelines  according to
which “where required, the monitoring body should be able to inform the code member, the code
owner, the competent SA and all concerned SAs about the measures taken and its justification
without  undue delay.  Moreover,  in  the  case  where  a  Lead  Supervisory  Authority  (LSA)  for  a
transnational code member is identifiable, the monitoring body should also appropriately inform
the LSA as to it sections.

67.

Regarding communication with the CZ SA the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

1. modify subsection 14.1 to address the reporting of any substantial change (e.g. any change that
impact the monitoring  body’s  ability  to  perform  its function)  to the CZ  SA  in the  accreditation
requirements;

2.  ensure compliance with the requirement specified by paragraph 79 of the Guidelines.

68.

Regarding review mechanisms the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

1.  fill in the missing parts of  this requirement.

69.

Regarding legal status the Board recommends that the CZ SA:

1.
follow the Guidelines in terms of structure and develop missing section on legal status in order
to specify that the monitoring body and its related governance structures need to be created in a
manner that  the  code  owners  can  demonstrate  that  the  monitoring  body  has  the  appropriate
standing to carry out its role under Article41(4) of the GDPR;
2.
remove the reference to Switzerland in subsection 1.6;
3.
explicitly require that monitoring bodies demonstrate continuity of the monitoring function
over time;

Adopted

14

clarify whether  the  monitoring  body  may  have  recourse  to subcontractors  and  on which

indicate  that  the  obligations applicable  to  the monitoring body are applicable in the same

4.
way to subcontractors;
5.
terms  and  conditions;
6.
7.
monitoring of the services provided by the contracting entity.

indicate that the monitoring body remains responsible to the SA for monitoring in all cases;
explicitly add that when subcontractors are used, the monitoring body shall ensure effective

FINAL REMARKS

70.

71.

This opinion is addressed to the Czech supervisory authority and will be made public pursuant to Article
64 (5) (b) GDPR.

According to Article 64 (7) and (8) GDPR, the CZ SA shall communicate to the Chair by electronic means
within two weeks after receiving the opinion, whether it will amend or maintain its draft decision.
Within the same period, it shall provide the amended draft decision or where it does not intend to
follow the opinion of the Board, it shall provide the relevant grounds for which it does not intend to
follow this opinion, in whole or in part.

72.

The CZ SA shall communicate the final decision to the Board for inclusion in the register of decisions,
which have been subject to the consistency mechanism, in accordance with article 70 (1) (y) GDPR.

For the European Data Protection Board

The Chair

(Andrea Jelinek)

Adopted

15

