 

Confidential/Registered
Municipality of Enschede
College of Mayor and Aldermen
PO Box 20
7500 AA SCALE
 

 

 

Date
March 11, 2021
 
 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
Contact
[CONFIDENTIAL]
 
 

 
Topic
Decision to impose an administrative fine
 

 

 

Authority for Personal Data
PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague
Bezuidenhoutseweg 30, 2594 AV The Hague
T 070 8888 500 - F 070 8888 501
authority data.nl

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Dear Board of Mayor and Aldermen of the Municipality of Enschede,
 
The Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) has decided to inform the Municipal Executive of
to impose an administrative fine of € 600,000 on the municipality of Enschede (the Municipal Executive of Enschede).
The Municipal Executive of Enschede has processed personal data of owners/users without any basis
of mobile devices with Wi-Fi turned on in the city center of Enschede. With that,
the Municipal Executive of Enschede Article 5, first paragraph under a, jo. Article 6, first paragraph of the General
Violated Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
 
The decision is explained in more detail below. Chapter 1 is an introduction and chapter 2 describes it
legal framework. In chapter 3, the DPA assesses whether personal data is involved, the
processing responsibility and the violation. In chapter 4 the (height of the) administrative
fine and Chapter 5 contains the operative part and the remedies clause.
 

 

  

 

1



 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Date
March 11, 2021

 

1 Introduction

1.1 Relevant government agency
 
This decision relates to the college of mayor and aldermen of the municipality of Enschede
(hereinafter: the B&W Enschede Board). On July 17, 2018, the AP received a complaint from a complainant with
therein the request to impose a corrective measure on the municipality of Enschede. the complainant
explained that there are sensors in the city center of Enschede that collect data from people walking by
who have turned on the Wi-Fi on their phone. Collecting and processing this data
according to the complainant, without justification within the meaning of Article 6, paragraph 1, of the General Regulation
data protection (hereinafter: GDPR). The AP then started an investigation into compliance with the GDPR
by the college B&W Enschede. During the investigation, the AP received two similar complaints.
 
1.2 Process
 
During the investigation, the AP requested information from the Municipal Executive of Enschede and Retail .
Management Center B.V. (hereinafter: Bureau RMC), the organization commissioned by the Municipal Executive
Enschede provides the WiFi measurements in the city center of Enschede. The AP also has information
requested from [CONFIDENTIAL] (hereinafter: [CONFIDENTIAL]), the organization that Bureau RMC
hires in turn to manage the sensors and to process all the data generated with the
sensors are collected. In addition, regulators of the AP on May 29, 2019, investigated
done on site at a number of shopkeepers in the city center of Enschede where a sensor was installed. the same
day, other supervisors of the AP at the office of Bureau RMC in Amsterdam have a
statement taken from the director of Bureau RMC and two employees of [CONFIDENTIAL]
and documents copied on the spot and data requisitioned.
 
In a letter of May 8, 2020, the AP has an intention to enforce to the college B & W Enschede
sent. The AP has also given the opportunity to do so by means of this letter, the Municipal Executive has
Enschede gave its opinion in writing on 14 July 2020 about this intention and the follow-up to it
underlying report. The AP subsequently requested further information on 14 January 2021 about
this view.
 

2. Legal framework

2.1 Scope GDPR
 
Pursuant to Article 2(1) of the GDPR, this Regulation applies to all or part of
automated processing, as well as to the processing of personal data that are in a file
included or intended to be included therein.
 
Pursuant to Article 4 of the GDPR, for the purposes of this Regulation:

 

 

2/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
1. “Personal data”: any information about an identified or identifiable natural person
(“the data subject”); […].
2. “Processing”: an operation or set of operations relating to personal data or
a set of personal data, whether or not carried out by automated processes […].
7. “Controller” means a natural or legal person, a public authority, a
agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purpose and means of the
processing of personal data; when the objectives and resources for this
processing is established in Union or Member State law, they may specify who
the controller is or according to which criteria it is designated; […].
 
2.2 Lawfulness of the processing
 
Article 5, first paragraph, preamble and under a of the GDPR provides, among other things, that personal data must be:
processed in a manner that is lawful with regard to the data subject.
 
Article 6(1) of the GDPR then provides an exhaustive list of the grounds for a
lawful data processing. This article states that processing is only lawful if and for
insofar as at least one of the six principles mentioned is met. The for the college B&W Enschede
any eligible bases are:1
c) the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the
controller rest;
e) the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or of a task in
in the context of the exercise of official authority vested in the controller
dedicated;
f) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the
controller or of a third party, except where the interests or fundamental rights and
fundamental freedoms of the data subject that require the protection of personal data, more important
outweigh those interests, especially when the data subject is a child.
 

3. Review

3.1 Processing of personal data
 
3.1.1 Introduction
The Municipal Executive of Enschede has had WiFi measurements carried out with the aim of measuring the effects of
investments by the municipality of Enschede in the city center with a view to dealing responsibly with
public funds. The AP will first assess whether the data processed for these WiFi measurements
personal data within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the GDPR.

                                                                        
1 In the present situation, no permission has been requested from the data subjects (ground a), the WiFi measurements are not necessary for
performance of an agreement with the data subject (ground b) and they are also not necessary to protect certain vital interests
protect (ground d).

 

 

3/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

3.1.2 Facts
In view of the extensive investigation in this case, the AP refers to the first chapter for the facts
of Annex 1 to this Decree. Below is a brief summary of the facts, after which the AP
comes to a judgment.
 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede has made the decision to start with 24/7 as of September 6, 2017.
measurements via sensors in the city center of Enschede. The college B&W Enschede has this assignment
awarded to City Traffic B.V., now Bureau RMC. Bureau RMC subsequently [CONFIDENTIAL]
hired for the installation and maintenance of the sensors in the city center of Enschede and for
collecting and validating the data collected with the sensors.2
 
In the investigation, the AP has found that eleven sensors have been installed at least since 25 May 2018.
various shopkeepers in the city center of Enschede. Each sensor has a range of up to 20 to 30 meters. The
As of this date, all mobile devices in range that have the Wi-Fi
was enabled the MAC address, signal strength, date and time captured and temporarily stored
in the working memory of the sensor. This storage lasted as long as the device was within range of the
sensor was located plus two minutes. The AP also notes that the sensors are continuously scanning. Furthermore,
the AP determined that every device detected on entry and two minutes after exit from the
range of the sensor in real time the following data has been sent to the server: status 1 or 2,
pseudonymised MAC address, signal strength, date and time, spoofed indicator, and sensor ID.
 
One and the same pseudonymization method is running on all sensors and this method has been used since May 25, 2018
not changed. The pseudonymization results in one MAC address on each of the sensors leading to
one and the same pseudonymised MAC address.
 
The data measured in one day by the sensors in the city center of Enschede are
collected daily in a short-term table. The time of day when the device passed through the sensor
scanned is hereby recorded accurately to the second. In the period up to January 1, 2019 it is
pseudonymised MAC address not truncated when entering the server, in the period from January 1
2019 does. The clipping involves removing [CONFIDENTIAL]. The other data that is
sent to the server, namely sensor ID, date, time, signal strength, status and spoofed indicator
are taken over in the short-term table unedited.
 
Two filters were applied to the short-term table each night, namely an opt-out filter and a
resident filter. These filters result in certain records from the short-term table not being
appear in the long-term table. The AP has found that the resident filter does not include all residents
filters out and that incorrect information is provided on the municipality's website.
 
After applying the filters to the short-term table, two consecutive records of the same
(truncated) pseudonymised MAC address to one record in the long-term table. From May 25, 2018 to
as of January 1, 2019, the long-term table contained the following data: pseudonymised MAC address,
                                                                        
2 The AP will discuss the relationship between these parties in more detail in section 3.2.

 

 

4/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
date, TimeIn, TimeOut, Retention, SignalStrengthIn, SignalStrengthOut. Has passed on January 1, 2019
on the clipping of the pseudonymised MAC address and the pseudonymised MAC address became
data with the truncated pseudonymised MAC address. The AP also notes that in
the long-term table as of May 25, 2018 contained data over a period of between six and seven
months.
 
The B&W Enschede college has received estimates of various variables about unique
visitors to the city center of Enschede. For this purpose, the applicable
data in the long-term table deduplicated based on the truncated pseudonymised MAC address
and then certain statistical calculations are applied to it.
 
On April 30, 2020, the college B&W Enschede has instructed Bureau RMC to transfer data as of May 1.
2020 to turn off the sensors. The sensors will no longer provide counting data from 1 May 2020.3
 
The AP has established that the Municipal Executive of Enschede from at least 25 May 2018 up to and including 30
April 20204 processed data from roughly 1.8 million unique mobile devices and that it
number of detections will be significantly higher.
 
The AP has subsequently established that from the long-term table after January 1, 2019 it is clear:
living patterns can be distilled. Given the regularity of the patterns, it is reasonable to
concluded that the records associated with the pattern belong to one mobile device. The
living patterns can, for example, reveal someone's home or workplace, but also more sensitive data
such as visits to medical institutions.
 
The AP further notes that Bureau RMC in its privacy protocol, which specifically concerns processing via the
City Traffic method, has stated that from at least May 25, 2018 . it and/or its partners
process personal data within the meaning of the GDPR. Furthermore, Bureau RMC also has in its privacy protocol
stated that the reports that clients receive from Bureau RMC do not contain any personal data
contain.
 
3.1.3 Assessment
During the processing (from detection by a sensor to storage in the long-term table) there are
distinguish different sets of data. These sets are shown in the table below,
where a distinction is made between the period prior to the introduction of the truncation of
pseudonymised MAC addresses (May 25, 2019 – January 1, 2019) and the period after the implementation of this
cut (January 1, 2019 – April 30, 2020).
 
 

                                                                        
3 Letter of 16 February 2021 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP, page 3 and appendix 2.
4 In the period from December 10, 2018 to January 3, 2019, the Municipal Executive of Enschede paused the WiFi measurements. earlier
collected data during this period was stored in the long-term table, so data was passed through during this period
processed by the B&W Enschede college. See also appendix 1, paragraphs 1.3 and 2.5.

 

 

5/58

May 25, 2018 - January 1, 2019

January 1, 2019 – April 30, 2020

 

 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 

Phase in
processing process
Temporary storage on
any sensor

Shipping to en
reception on the
server
Short-term table on
the server

MAC address; signal strength; Date;
Time of day

Pseudonymized MAC address;
signal strength; Date; Time of day; Sensor-
ID; status; Spoofed indicator
Pseudonymized MAC address;
signal strength; Date; Time of day; Sensor-
ID; status; Spoofed indicator

Long-term table on
the server

ID; Pseudonymized MAC address;
signal strengthIN; Signal strengthOFF,
Date; timeIN; timeOFF;
residence time; Sensor ID; BWCode

Same as prior to January 1
2019
 
Same as prior to January 1
2019
 
Clipped pseudonymised MAC
address; signal strength; Date;
Time of day; Sensor ID; status; Spoofed
indicator
ID; Clipped pseudonymized
MAC address; signal strengthIN;
Signal strengthOFF, Date;
timeIN; timeOFF; residence time;
Sensor ID; BWCode

 
 
In the table above, the most valuable attributes in terms of being able to identify
the natural persons in bold. On the one hand, it concerns the MAC address, pseudonymised first
and later clipped, and on the other side the combination of Date, Time in seconds and Sensor ID.
This last combination shows very precisely when a mobile device was true; so this is a
location data. In this context, the AP therefore refers to 'location data'.5
 
Two hatches have also been applied in the table above, namely light gray for the
(pseudonymized) MAC address and dark gray for the truncated pseudonymized MAC address.
In the remainder of this section, the AP will demonstrate that all sets included in the table above
data qualify as personal data within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the GDPR.
 
Light gray areas: The MAC address or pseudonymised MAC address in combination with the location data
qualify as personal data within the meaning of the GDPR at every stage of the processing process
 
Article 4, preamble and part 1, of the GDPR provides that data qualify as personal data if
it is information about “an identified or identifiable natural person”. From the first situation,

                                                                        
5 On location data from mobile devices, European data protection supervisors have already identified in 2011
that they can reveal a lot about the owners of those devices. See also Pages 7 and 8 of WP185 Advice 13/2011 on
geolocation services on smart mobile devices: “Most people tend to have their mobile devices close to them
such as in a trouser or jacket pocket, in a bag or on the nightstand next to the bed. (…) It is rare that someone has such a
lend the device to someone else. (…) Thus, from a pattern of inactivity at night, the sleeping place can be inferred and from a
regular morning travel pattern the employer's location.”

 

 

6/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
information about an 'identified person' is not possible in the present situation because the identity
of the natural person does not follow directly from the MAC address or the pseudonymised MAC
address and location information.

 

In order to be personal data, the data must therefore be information about 'an identifiable'
natural person'. In this case, the natural person must be directly or indirectly identifiable
by means of identifiers or characteristic elements. Possible identifiers in present
situation: the MAC address, the pseudonymised MAC address and the location data.

 

A MAC address – if not spoofed6 – is a unique identification number of a mobile device.
Because mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets are highly personal, the natural
person in question will be linked to the MAC address via his/her mobile device. This means that
a non-spoofed MAC address can be an identifier of a natural person.

 

The pseudonymised MAC address is, as explained in the facts, a conversion of a MAC address
to another unique character sequence. As a result, the pseudonymised MAC address -
provided that the underlying MAC address has not been spoofed – an identifier of a natural person can
be.7
 
With regard to the location data, it is explicitly mentioned in Article 4, part 1, of the GDPR as:
possible identifier of a natural person as location data can reveal a lot about
the owner of the mobile device.
 
The question now is whether in each phase of the processing process on the basis of the aforementioned
identifiers a natural person can be identified. Hereafter the AP describes per phase in the
processing is an example of a way in which it was reasonably possible to
natural person to whom the data relates.

 

Way 1: Identification of persons from the data stored on the sensor
During the investigation, the AP determined that the MAC address and location data are temporarily stored
stored in the working memory of each sensor and that the pseudonymised MAC address and
location data is sent to the server. [CONFIDENTIAL] is responsible for the
management of all sensors in the city center of Enschede and the collection of the data. Bee
[CONFIDENTIAL] So the exact location of the sensors is known and access to the
working memory and the software running on each sensor.8 Simultaneously with a new detection of a mobile
device through a sensor, it is, for example, possible for someone from [CONFIDENTIAL] to on-site
or detect via a camera which person comes within range of the sensor. especially on

                                                                        
6 Spoofing in this context is an informal term for “MAC Address Randomization”, a technique by which part of the MAC address
address sometimes changes randomly for the purpose of tracking a device by reducing time and space.
7 See chapter 4 of WP 216 Opinion 5/2014 on anonymization techniques.
8 For example, by logging into the sensor directly or by adding to their software code that the working memory must be
written to another location that the employees can access.

 

 

7/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
quiet moments in the inner city, this leads directly to identification of the natural person. To check
the person may be asked for his/her MAC address. The same way of identification is possible
in the case of pseudonymised MAC addresses and the associated location data, because then also on
the moment of detection on site or via a camera the person in question can be observed.
 
Method 2: identification of persons using the data in the short-term table (until 1 January 2019)
This way describes that on the basis of the data in the short-term table it is also possible to
identify natural persons. [CONFIDENTIAL] takes care of the collection and validation
of the data. The short-term table therefore rests with [CONFIDENTIAL]. From mobile devices that use the
range of a sensor, data associated with 'status 1' is recorded in the
short-term table and if the same mobile device leaves the range of the sensor a little later, then
data with 'status 2' is sent to the short-term table. However, if a mobile device
within range of a particular sensor, for example because that person lives within it or
works, then the short-term table only contains a status 1 record with the
pseudonymised MAC address, Date and Time. If a status 2 record is not available for a longer period of time, then
is it known to [CONFIDENTIAL] that the relevant resident or shop employee is still
within range of the sensor. Someone from [CONFIDENTIAL] can then be on site
identify the person and identify the person.
 
Way 3: identification of persons using the data in the long-term table (until 1 January 2019)
Finally, for [CONFIDENTIAL] it is also included in the
long-term table possible to identify natural persons. The AP has established that in the
long-term table from after 1 January 2019, i.e. after the introduction of cutting, lifestyle and exercise pattern
can be recognized.9 This will also be the case in the long-term table from before January 1, 2019, when there was still
unique pseudonymised MAC addresses, because then also six months of data
were kept. Using a pattern, it is possible for [CONFIDENTIAL] to
predict when the relevant natural person is located somewhere, for example the person who
moves between sensors in the city center of Enschede every night between 04:00 and 05:00. During the night
there are hardly any other people on the street and it is therefore possible for [CONFIDENTIAL] to
to identify this person on site or via a camera.

 

In the above three examples of ways of identifying natural persons by
[CONFIDENTIAL] takes into account recital (26) of the GDPR which states that taking into account
should be taken by "all means reasonably foreseeable"
used by the controller or by another person to identify the natural person
directly or indirectly identified. The AP concludes that the above three ways of identifying
natural persons, in view of the time, costs and manpower required, no excessive effort of
[CONFIDENTIAL] require. The criteria in Breyer v Germany10 are also met, because the
manners are neither prohibited by law nor impracticable in practice. That employees of

                                                                        
9 See also appendix 1, paragraph 1.2, page 46 and further.
10 ECJ, 19 October 2016, ECLI:EU:C:2016:779, r.o. 46.

 

 

8/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
[CONFIDENTIAL] do not use these resources in practice to target people in the inner city of
Identifying Enschede does not alter the fact that they could reasonably do so.
In addition to identification by [CONFIDENTIAL], the AP notes that the identification is also made by employees
can be done by Bureau RMC. The AP has established that Bureau RMC on the basis of the
service level agreement with [CONFIDENTIAL] has access to all data that [CONFIDENTIAL]
collected. In addition, the AP notes that even the Municipal Executive of Enschede can do the identification,
because it also has access to all data on the basis of the processing agreement with Bureau RMC.
Possibly, identification of the natural persons could also take place by the
to link personal data collected with the sensors to the data collected via the
various smart-city projects in Enschede.11

 

With regard to the use of MAC addresses and location data, it is noted that the predecessor
of the AP in 2015 in an investigation of a company that provided Wi-Fi tracking found12 that it
registering MAC addresses and location data via sensors qualifies as processing
personal data because identification of the natural persons was possible on the above
described Way 1.13 In addition, the joint European
data protection supervisors stated in their opinion on apps on smart devices that
location data and unique identifiers of mobile devices are personal data.14 In their opinion
They stated about the proposed e-Privacy Regulation: 'In this context, it should be noted that these
MAC addresses are personal data, even after security measures such as hashing have been undertaken.’15
 
Based on the foregoing, the AP concludes that the combination of MAC address and location data and
the combination of pseudonymised MAC address and location data on the sensor from May 25, 2018 to
with April 30, 2020 and in the short-term and long-term table until January 1, 2019 qualify as
personal data within the meaning of the GDPR.

 

                                                                        
11 www.smartenschede.nl
12 The report tested against the definition of personal data in Article 1 under a of the Personal Data Protection Act: ‘every
data concerning an identified or identifiable natural person”. The current definition of personal data in the
AVG is identical.
13 Section 5.1 of the report final findings 'Wi-Fi tracking of mobile devices in and around stores by Bluetrace' (z2014-
00944) dated 13 October 2015. Can be found at www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/nl/nieuws/cbp-wifi-tracking-rond-winkels-schijn-met-
the law. At the time, the AP also informed the VNG by letter about its positions on WiFi tracking:
https://www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/sites/default/files/atoms/files/brief_ap_vng_wifi-tracking.pdf.
14 WP202 Opinion 02/2013 on apps on smart devices, page 8. Available through the AP website:
https://www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/sites/default/files/downloads/int/wp202_en_opinion_on_mobile_apps.pdf
15 WP247 Opinion 01/2017 on Proposed Regulation for the ePrivacy Regulation, page 11. See also WP223 Opinion 8/2014: Full
development of IoT capabilities may put a strain on the current possibilities of anonymous use of services and generally limit the
possibility of remaining unnoticed. For instance, wearable things kept in close proximity of data subjects result in the availability of a
range of other identifiers, such as the MAC addresses of other devices which could be useful to generate a fingerprint allowing data
subject location tracking. The collection of multiple MAC addresses of multiple sensor devices will help create unique fingerprints and
more stable identifiers which IoT stakeholders will be able to attribute to specific individuals. These fingerprints and identifiers could
be used for a range of purposes, including location analytics7 or the analysis of movement patterns of crowds and individuals. such a
trend must be combined with the fact that such data can later be combined with other data issued from other systems (e.g. CCTV or
internet log). In such circumstances, some sensor data are particularly vulnerable to re-identification attacks.

 

 

9/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
From the privacy protocol of Bureau RMC and the infographic with which Bureau RMC provides an explanation of
the City Traffic method, the AP concludes that Bureau RMC also believes that it and/or its partners
processed personal data up to the time of cutting the pseudonymised MAC
address.

 

Dark gray areas: Clipping the pseudonymised MAC address does not eliminate all three risks
traceability, linkability and deducibility, so that it is still personal data in
the meaning of the GDPR
 
Bureau RMC states that the short- and long-term table after the introduction of 'anonymisation on the'
server” no longer contain personal data within the meaning of the GDPR. The City Traffic infographic
method16 formulates this as follows: “The anonymized code is now no longer traceable, linkable and
identifiable to a unique device. Our data therefore does not contain any personal data.”

 

The AP then concludes that the chosen anonymization method of (only) cutting off a
small part of the pseudonymised MAC address does not adequately address the risks of traceability,
linkability and deducibility and that the data qualify as personal data. The
AP explains this below.
 
Linkability
The risk of linkability is present if there is the possibility to have at least two records
relating the same data subject or group of data subjects (in the same database or in
two different databases).

 

The AP notes that linking records about the same data subject or group of data subjects
actually takes place. This is because two consecutive records with the same truncated
pseudonymised MAC address in the short-term table linked and included in the
long-term table. In addition, the data in the long-term table is deduplicated based on the
truncated pseudonymised MAC address to serve as the basis for grades for college B&W
Enschede about unique visitors to the city center of Enschede. The AP also points to the statement here
of the employees of [CONFIDENTIAL]17 that the loss of detail due to cutting off part of
the symbols of the hashed Mac address is limited so that pairing is still possible.

 

It follows from the foregoing that the chosen anonymization technique does not exclude the risk of linkability.
Since it is required that all three risks are excluded, the conclusion can already be drawn
that the anonymization technique fails and that re-identification of natural persons is possible. For the
For completeness, the AP also covers the other two risks.
 
 
 
                                                                        
16 See appendix 1, paragraph 1.2, figure 2.
17 See Appendix 1, Section 1.2, page 44.

 

 

10/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Traceability
The risk of traceability is present if it is possible to identify a person in a dataset
individualize by highlighting certain records.

 

The AP has been able to demonstrate that clear living patterns can be derived from the long-term table. This one
patterns are associated with one truncated pseudonymised MAC address, meaning it is possible
is that the patterns contain the location data of multiple mobile phones. However, given the
regularity of the patterns it can reasonably be concluded that all records belonging to
to the pattern come from a single mobile device, and thus one natural person.
This makes it possible to individualize a person. The AP therefore concludes that the risk of
traceability is not excluded.
 
deducibility
A risk of inducibility is present if there is a possibility to measure the value of a
personal characteristic is most likely to be derived from the values of a series of other
attributes. From the three visualizations of the long-term table18, it is likely that a
value of a personal characteristic can be derived, for example the sleeping place or the location of the
employer. The AP therefore concludes that clipping the pseudonymised MAC address also
does not exclude the risk of inducibility.
 
On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that the short-term and
long-term table are insufficiently resistant to re-identification.

 

In addition, the AP concludes that the combination of the truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses and
the detailed location data in these tables qualify as personal data within the meaning of Article 4
part 1 of the GDPR, because the previously described ways 2 and 3 of identification also apply in
case of truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses. Method 2 works because it also works in the
short-term table is visible if there is only a status 1 record, and so that the person belonging to the
truncated pseudonymised MAC address is still within range of the sensor.
Someone from [CONFIDENTIAL] can then determine on the spot who it is and the
identify person. For way 3, the AP had already based it on the long-term table with
truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses.
 
3.1.4 View of the Municipal Executive of Enschede and response from the AP
The main point of the B&W Enschede Board is that the Board only uses anonymous, aggregated data from
Bureau RMC receives. Below is a summary of the view of the Municipal Executive of Enschede
with the response of the AP.
 
Operation and storage sensors
According to the board of B&W Enschede of Bureau RMC/[CONFIDENTIAL], a sensor has a
range of potentially up to 70 meters around the measuring point. The sensor captures the Wi-Fi signals that a
                                                                        
18 See appendix 1, paragraph 1.2, page 46 and further.

 

 

11/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
device emissions within the sensor area. The sensor receives a 'packet' of data including the
MAC address of the device and the WiFi strength. According to the Municipal Executive, no (other) to
the personally identifiable information is registered. Also no longitude, latitude or address data are sent
received by the sensor.
 
The status messages sent to the server are accompanied by the hashed MAC address.
This hashing19 takes place immediately upon forwarding. The AP indicates in its investigation that there are
unpseudonymized (i.e. original) MAC addresses are stored on the working memory of the
sensor. According to the Board of B&W Enschede that is correct, but that is only very temporary (a few
milliseconds); after all, without this temporary storage in the working memory of the sensor, there would be no
hashing can take place. However, according to the Board of B&W Enschede, this is not possible
identification take place. After all, one cannot gain access to the sensor in such a way that one
could find out a MAC address. No MAC addresses are stored permanently and there are
for example, no lists or databases with MAC addresses are available. Desk
RMC/[CONFIDENTIAL] cannot access the MAC addresses on the sensors.
 
The AP does not follow the view of the Municipal Executive. That the sensors potentially have a range of up to
70 meters does not alter the fact that in this case the sensors are “calibrated” and adjusted to the
across the road.20 The sensors therefore do not have a range of 70 meters around the measuring point, but
a range right across the street. The AP also notes that for the determination of the location
no GPS data is needed. After all, the location of the sensor is known to [CONFIDENTIAL] and the
sensor ID is sent to the server. That this data is in another database means
not that [CONFIDENTIAL] doesn't have access to it.
 
The Board of B&W Enschede also states that access is not possible to the MAC addresses on
the sensor. In response, the AP would like to emphasize the following. There are two modules on the sensor
active. The first [CONFIDENTIAL] is the receiving module and keeps track of MAC addresses as they become
receive. The working memory of this module therefore contains all MAC addresses that are also within the
have been received by the sensor in the past two minutes. The second module [CONFIDENTIAL] receives
status-1 and status-2 messages from the first module. The first message means “there is a new phone
detected” and the second means “the phone has not been seen for more than two minutes”. The two
modules communicate through a so-called [CONFIDENTIAL]21 and unhashed
MAC addresses sent. The hashing only takes place in the second module, just before the data
be sent to the server. [CONFIDENTIAL]22. [CONFIDENTIAL].23 [CONFIDENTIAL].
 
 
 

                                                                        
19 Hashen is the conversion of a series of numbers and/or letters into another unique series by means of an algorithm.
20 Report of statement of Bureau RMC and [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019, page 2 (document number 49).
21 [CONFIDENTIAL]
22 [CONFIDENTIAL]
23 [CONFIDENTIAL]

 

 

12/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Identification natural persons
Furthermore, the Board of B&W Enschede takes the position that the MAC addresses used by the sensor
collects, whether or not in combination with a location data, not directly or indirectly to identify
an individual natural person can lead. The Municipal Executive of Enschede disputes the finding
of the AP that a MAC address, for example in combination with a location data, in some situations
could identify a natural person, not. However, the college of B&W Enschede wants
emphasize that there could only be direct or indirect identifiability if there is
is of (link with) additional data.
 
In its report, the AP assumes too quickly in the eyes of the Board of B&W Enschede that this is the case
of traceability. According to the Board of B&W Enschede, the publication of WP29 shows:
expressly that the single MAC address is not considered personal data. A MAC address is
according to WP29, personal data is only considered if it is combined with other data. In this case
however, there is no combination of the MAC addresses with other data. The only other
The fact that could possibly play a role in this regard is (rough) location data. This
location data is, however, in this case too imprecise to identify an individual in conjunction with a MAC address
can identify.
 
In addition, the Municipal Executive of Enschede takes the position that the criteria from have not been met
the Breyer v Germany judgment in order to be able to speak of personal data. The MAC addresses are
namely not saved, but hashed directly on the sensor after which the original MAC address is
deleted. It is therefore not possible to get to the original MAC addresses. Future identification is
impossible for that reason alone.
 
According to the B&W Enschede college, the data sent from the sensor has no direct effect
location information. The Sensor ID is nothing more or less than a designation of the sensor, it says
not yet exactly where the sensor is located. In addition, the Sensor ID only comes into view for the first time when
sending the hashed MAC addresses from the sensor to the server. Due to the separate storage,
linking of the Sensor ID with the MAC address only takes place later in the counting process. From that
at the moment, however, the MAC address is no longer available. The MAC address is sent when it is sent
after all, hashed to the server, and then truncate. Identification, also on the basis of a
so-called location data, can therefore not take place according to the Municipal Executive of Enschede.
 
The AP does not follow the view of the Municipal Executive of Enschede. The B&W Enschede college puts forward
wrong emphasis on the fact that the MAC addresses are transformed and not standalone for
be kept for some time. However, it ignores the data seen by the AP
as personal data.
The combination (pseudonymous identifier + datetime + location) is personal data. Here's that the
combination of clipped hashed MAC address, date plus time in seconds and the ID of the sensor. The
any possibility to go back from a hashed and truncated MAC addresses to the original
MAC address is therefore irrelevant. The point here for the AP is that the pseudonymous identifier can be traced over time
little has changed.
 

 

 

13/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The possibility of deduction (and ultimately identification) is a result of design decisions in the
platform. Storing the unchanged identifiers for a long time makes it possible to:
to track individuals. At that time they are only displayed as numbers. But this is
same number for six months. In this case one cannot speak of robust
anonymization techniques. In any case, this was not the case during the investigation by the AP.
 
Because the same identifier comes along time and again, it is therefore possible to track people. With that
time and location become a factor. And as has already been mentioned by the AP, the exact location is
of the sensors known to [CONFIDENTIAL] where the range of the sensors is adjusted to the
across the street and not 70 meters. Movement patterns are highly individual. The lecture
B&W Enschede underestimates the sensitive nature of location data, which were always kept for six months.
 
Lifestyles
The AP concludes that living patterns can also be distilled from the hashed and truncated data
which in themselves can be traced back to an individual. However, the municipality of Enschede is of the opinion that
traceability to an individual on the basis of a lifestyle is not possible in this case.
 
In the eyes of the B&W Enschede Board, it can be assumed that a certain pattern develops
also in the future will never be the basis of a real, indirect, identification. Profiling is
after all, only possible if several counts of a pseudonym are collected. To the
municipality understood, in this case most counts are done on the basis of one-off counts. Such
applies to approximately 70% of the counts.
 
In addition, there may theoretically be overlap in the living patterns that the AP believes it can abstract
of multiple devices, due to the truncation of the hashed values. It's not on
pre-exclude that two or more hashed, and then truncate, data has the same value
to get. Furthermore, it is not only individuals who have devices with a MAC address with them, but that
various other devices such as pin machines, smart TVs and printers may also be located in the area.
 
This only possible method of identification that the AP outlines is identification by an employee of
Bureau RMC/ [CONFIDENTIAL] on site or via remote camera images. This one
The possibility of identification is, according to the B&W Enschede Commission, unworkable or, even worse: impossible. The
inappropriateness of a request, i.e. asking a person what MAC address he/she has, is no more
than a theoretical one. In addition, Bureau RMC/[CONFIDENTIAL] does not have a MAC address at all
has at its disposal to verify that MAC address. After all, the MAC address is
college B&W Enschede was immediately hashed and later anonymized. In addition, the MAC address is not
recorded in a list or, for example, a database, so that identification and control afterwards does not take place
can find.
 
Real-time identification, really necessary to identify a natural person and also
the only example of identification that the AP gives in its investigation report, according to the college
B&W Enschede will not take place due to the delay that occurs in the counting system and because

 

 

14/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
the search area is too large. The AP must also be aware that there is a lot of pressure on
moments hundreds, if not thousands, of people can be in the sensor area.
 
Incidentally, the municipality of Enschede, contrary to the opinion of the AP, has no possibility at all to
to collect any data that can be traced back to individuals at Bureau RMC/[CONFIDENTIAL]. The
any contractual possibility, according to the B&W Enschede Commission, is insufficient to assume that
the municipality actually had and has access to the data referred to.
 
The AP largely does not follow the view of the Municipal Executive of Enschede. As mentioned before
the AP considers the applied anonymization techniques insufficient, so that it was possible to
to be able to track individuals when storing the unchanged identifiers for a long time. The
AP agrees with the fact that in 70% of the cases the counts are done on the basis of one-off
counts. However, that does not detract from the fact that the B&W Enschede council of tens of thousands of citizens does
processed multiple counts and that the one-time visitors could be identified on the basis of the
data on the sensors. And although there are of course some devices such as printers in the city,
it seems unimaginable to the AP that these are visible in multiple locations because they are located throughout the city
to move. The resident filter makes an attempt to filter out these types of devices.
 
The AP also maintains its position that identification of natural persons is possible on the three
ways described in section 3.1.3. In doing so, the AP has taken into account all means of which
can reasonably be expected to be used by the controller or by
another person to directly or indirectly identify the natural person, for example
selection techniques.24 The combination (pseudonymous identifier + datetime + location) makes it possible
to identify someone. It is not without reason that Article 4, part 1, of the GDPR
location data as an identifier.25 After someone has been identified, one can check that person
ask for his MAC address. The AP has mentioned this control question as an example. However, there are many
ways to verify the identity of persons.
 
If Bureau RMC/[CONFIDENTIAL] had properly carried out all the technical measures referred to
then there would be no tracking. The step to actually identify therefore requires
other disproportionate effort according to the AP. And in some cases – the nocturnal
walker for example - identification requires only a very limited effort. From the collected data
to trace his living patterns, so that you can find out someone's place of residence or workplace. The AP refers
continue to page 12 of this decision for an explanation of why real-time identification is indeed possible
used to be.
 
Finally, it is not required that all information enabling the data subject to be identified is
rests with one and the same person.26 It is important here that the Enschede Municipal Executive is lawful
has access to all means that can be used to contact a natural person directly or indirectly

                                                                        
24 Recital 26 GDPR.
25 For more in-depth information, see https://www.nature.com/articles/srep01376
26 CJEU, 19 October 2016, ECLI:EU:C:2016:779, r.o. 43.

 

 

15/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
identify. That the Municipal Executive of Enschede has contractually agreed to be able to collect data
request from Bureau RMC and [CONFIDENTIAL], gives the Board pre-eminently lawful access to
the personal data. The fact that the B&W Enschede college does not (want to) make use of this is legal
irrelevant.
 
3.2 Controller
 
3.2.1 Introduction
In the context of the question whether the Municipal Executive of Enschede processes the personal data in line with Article 5,
first paragraph, opening words and under a jo. Article 6(1) of the GDPR is also important to determine who to
trademarks is the controller as referred to in Article 4(7) of the GDPR. In addition,
determines who determines the purpose and means of the processing of personal data.
 
3.2.2 Facts
In view of the extensive investigation in this case, the AP refers to the second chapter for the facts
of Annex 1 to this Decree. Below is a brief summary of the facts, after which the AP reached a
judgment comes.
 
The B&W Enschede college has decided to start with 24/7 measurements via
sensors in the city center of Enschede. The contract for this has been awarded to City Traffic B.V., currently
office RMC. In addition, the municipality of Enschede has both a press release and a number of information on its website
Posted Q&As about the WiFi measurements.
 
The WiFi measurements were carried out with the aim of measuring the effects of municipal investments in
the inner city of Enschede with a view to dealing responsibly with public funds. In addition
the municipality points out that the measurements can provide insight into topics that are important
for the fulfillment of its public task, such as the effects of road works, keeping
shopping Sundays and market days, city center promotion, the attractiveness of events, the acquisition
of shops and catering establishments and determining whether and when action must be taken in the context of order and
safety.
 
On September 26, 2017, the Municipal Executive of Enschede and the predecessor of Bureau RMC
processor agreement concluded in the context of the WiFi measurements in the city center of Enschede. In
this agreement provides that the Municipal Executive of Enschede is the controller for the
processing of personal data. It has also been determined that the processor, Bureau RMC, processes the data
for the benefit of the Municipal Executive of Enschede. Bureau RMC only processes the data on behalf of
the Municipal Executive of Enschede and will also follow all reasonable instructions in this regard. At all times
At the request of the Municipal Executive of Enschede, all data originating from the municipality of Enschede will be
submitted to the Municipal Executive of Enschede with regard to the processor agreement. Desk
RMC may only outsource the work to third parties with prior written permission
of the college B&W Enschede. And the parties agree that Bureau RMC has the data processed
by [CONFIDENTIAL], with whom Bureau RMC has concluded a level service agreement.

 

 

16/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede has had a guiding role in the number and locations of the sensors that
be used for the WiFi measurements. In addition, the Municipal Executive of Enschede has, in response to the
publication of the AP on November 30, 2018 about WiFi tracking to Bureau RMC commissioned the
to temporarily pause wifi measurements in the city center of Enschede. As of January 1, 2019, Bureau RMC has
At the request of the B&W Enschede Board, the so-called “anonymization on the server” has been introduced, whereby
the last three characters of the pseudonymised MAC addresses are truncated. The college B&W
Finally, on April 30, 2020, Enschede has instructed Bureau RMC to provide data as of May 1, 2020
to turn off sensors.
 
3.2.3 Assessment
Article 4, preamble and section 7, of the GDPR defines a controller as a
natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, solely
or together with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data. In
in this case, the processing of the mobile device's MAC address, time (in seconds) and
the date of detection by the sensor and the sensor ID. It is not required that the
controller has the personal data in its possession.27
 
The AP is of the opinion that the Municipal Executive of Enschede is the controller for the processing
of personal data by means of the Wi-Fi counts in the city center of Enschede, because they are the
who has determined both the purpose and partly the means for the processing. She justifies this as follows.
 
The person who determines the purpose of the processing of the personal data is the person who determines why the
processing takes place. As discussed in section 3.2.2, the Municipal Executive of Enschede was the one
who has decided to carry out WiFi measurements. In addition, the data is processed for a
the Municipal Executive of Enschede for a specific purpose, namely measuring the effects of municipal
investments in the city center of Enschede. The other purposes that the B&W Enschede college in
cites her point of view for the WiFi measurements (for example, measuring the effects of
road works, city center promotion and Sunday shopping) have also been determined by the college and are
moreover based on the Municipalities Act.28 Furthermore, the Municipal Executive of Enschede on 30 November 2018
Have Bureau RMC temporarily pause processing and have the sensors switched off on 1 May 2020. It
B&W Enschede board was also the one who determined with its board decision that there
personal data are processed, and the person who can therefore decide to stop doing so. With that
the Municipal Executive of Enschede has control over whether or not the personal data is processed. The
AP concludes that the B&W Enschede Commission has not yet determined the purposes for the processing of personal data
has decided.
 

                                                                        
27 CJEU, 5 June 2018, ECLI:EU:C:2018:388 (Wirtschaftsakademie) and CJEU, 29 July 2019, ECLI:EU:C:2019:269 (Fashion ID).
28 The Municipal Executive of Enschede argues in its view that the measurements also provide insight into the effects of road works,
the holding of Sunday shopping and market days, inner-city promotion, the attractiveness of events, the acquisition of
shops and catering establishments and determining whether and when action must be taken in the context of order and safety.

 

 

17/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The person who decides how the processing takes place must be regarded as the person who provides the means
determines. As discussed in section 3.2.2, the Municipal Executive of Enschede has decided to
processing personal data using a service provider, namely Bureau RMC. The
technical elaboration of the processing of the personal data has been delegated to Bureau RMC,
whereby the Municipal Executive of Enschede, on the basis of the processor agreement, did have the option to
to give instructions. The Municipal Executive of Enschede has also exerted influence on the resources for the
processing by co-determining how many sensors would be placed and where they would be placed
would become. The AP concludes that the B&W Enschede Commission must determine by whom the processing is carried out
would be carried out and also the way in which the processing takes place, for example by the number of
sensors and their locations, has partly determined how the processing of personal data
took place.
 
On the basis of the above, the AP concludes that the B&W Enschede Commission both achieves the goal and partly
has determined the means for the processing and thus qualifies as
controller within the meaning of Article 4, preamble and section 7, of the GDPR for the
processing of personal data via sensors in the city center of Enschede.
 
3.2.4 View of the Municipal Executive of Enschede and response from the AP
In its view, the Municipal Executive argues that it is not a controller within the meaning of the
AVG is. In doing so, it makes a distinction between its responsibility as a client, which it does not
disputed, and the concept of controller as defined in the GDPR. Although the college B&W
Enschede designates itself as controller in the processing agreement, there are
according to its factual circumstances which indicate that they do not, or only jointly,
is the controller. For example, the operation of the WiFi counting technique, the way in which the
data is collected, which data exactly is collected for the desired output, the
choice for hashing and truncating, the storage and the (whether or not in consultation) storage period determined by
Office RMC. The B&W Enschede Board also has no access to the data and no control
about the fact that Bureau RMC provides or even sells data to third parties. The college also conducts
Enschede states that it does not prescribe the frameworks and/or conditions within which the data is collected
incorporated. Furthermore, Bureau RMC states in Article 1.1 of its Privacy Protocol CityTraffic that it itself
is the controller.
 
The AP has taken note of the argument of the B&W Enschede Board, but does not follow this.
Below, it will first be explained why the AP is of the opinion that the Municipal Executive of Enschede does
is the controller. The AP will then discuss why there is no
joint processing responsibility.
 
Processing Responsibility
The factual circumstances to which the Commission refers all relate to the means for the
processing. After all, what matters is how the processing takes place. Although Bureau RMC influence
has in the way of processing, the College B&W Enschede is the one that has chosen to
to use the services offered by Bureau RMC, the person who has determined how many sensors are

 

 

18/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
would be placed and where they would be placed. With this, the municipality has (also) determined
which means are used for the processing.
 
The fact that the municipality would not have access to the data that Bureau RMC processes means, according to the
AP does not mean that it cannot be a controller within the meaning of the GDPR. The Court of Justice of
the European Union (CJEU) has determined that it does not require that all information used by the
the person concerned can be identified, is owned by one and the same person.29
 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede further points out that Bureau RMC can determine the data to a third party
lot to sell. The AP makes a distinction between different processing operations. First of all,
there is the processing of personal data by Bureau RMC for the purpose of the Board of B&W
Enschede, namely measuring the effects of municipal investment in the city centre. This is the
processing that is the subject of the investigation and what the DPA is responsible for as the controller
qualifies. This responsibility is limited to the processing operations for which the Board of Directors has
Enschede determines the goal and partly the means. In addition, there is the possible processing whereby Bureau
RMC can give other parties access to the information that it also uses to provide the
data to the Municipal Executive of Enschede. Bureau RMC may have these because in the
processor agreement it has been determined that Bureau RMC is entitled to an auction file (stripped of
personal data), a copy of the data that can be used by anyone who makes an application
about, for example, crowds in a certain place in the city center of Enschede. In the second situation, there is
there is a processing that falls outside the purposes of the Enschede Municipal Executive, and therefore also
beyond its responsibility as a controller. That the B&W Enschede college
this other, second processing operation is not a controller does not affect the conclusion that
the Municipal Executive of Enschede is still the one who determines the purpose and partly the for the first processing
resources and therefore qualifies as a controller.
 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede further argues that it does not prescribe the frameworks and/or conditions
in which the data is processed. The AP does not follow this argument. In the processor agreement,
determined Bureau RMC will follow all reasonable instructions of the Municipal Executive of Enschede. Desk
RMC has already done this by ceasing processing twice at the request of the Municipal Executive. The
The AP concludes from this that the Commission, if desired, does specify the frameworks and/or conditions within which the
data can be processed. That the municipality has not always used this
possibility, or does not intend to, does not alter its existence.
 
Finally, the Commission argues that CityTraffic's Privacy Protocol stipulates that Bureau RMC
is the controller. The AP does not follow this argument either. First of all, paragraph 1.1 of the
Privacy Protocol that CityTraffic is responsible, insofar as they (alone or jointly with others)
determines the purposes and means of processing MAC addresses. That means, according to the AP
not that Bureau RMC is in any case the controller. Furthermore, Bureau RMC and the
Board of B&W Enschede laid down in the processing agreement concluded between them that it is precisely the Board
B&W Enschede is the controller. Now that the processor agreement between the parties
                                                                        
29 CJEU, 19 October 2016, ECLI:EU:C:2016:779, r.o. 43.

 

 

19/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
agreement is concluded, in contrast to the privacy protocol of Bureau RMC, connection must be
are searched for in this processor agreement. In addition, the B&W Enschede college is the one that
actually determines the purposes and partly the means of the processing. In such a situation, where
the factual situation deviates from a “paper” reality, such as the privacy protocol, is the factual
leading the situation.
 
Joint Processing Responsibility
The Board of B&W argues that if the AP is of the opinion that the Board
controller is that there is only a joint
processing responsibility. The AP does not follow this argument and justifies it as follows.
 
Article 26 of the GDPR provides that when two or more controllers jointly
determine the purposes and means of the processing, they are joint controllers.
Article 4, preamble and section 7, of the GDPR also provides that the controller
is the person who, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing. In both
Articles stipulate that the (joint) controller determines the purpose and means for the
processing determines. It appears from the factual circumstances cited by the Enschede Board of B&W:
that Bureau RMC has a degree of influence on the means of processing. However, it has not been shown
that Bureau RMC determines the purposes for the processing of personal data for the Municipal Executive
Enschede. Now that Bureau RMC has not determined the purposes for the processing, it cannot
be a controller. As a result, there can also be no joint
processing responsibility. That Bureau RMC partly influences the determination of the means
this does not change for the processing, because the (joint) controller has the purpose and
means of processing.
 
3.3 Lawfulness of the processing
 
3.3.1 Introduction
In section 3.2, the AP noted that the Municipal Executive of Enschede de
is the controller for the processing in the context of the WiFi measurements. The AP will be in the
the following assess whether the Municipal Executive of Enschede can make a successful appeal for this processing
on one of the grounds from Article 6 of the GDPR.
 
3.3.2 Assessment and response to opinion
Article 5, first paragraph, preamble and under a, of the GDPR provides, among other things, that personal data must be:
processed in a manner that is lawful with regard to the data subject. Trading in
accordance with this principle of legality, if there is a sound legal basis for the
processing is present.
 
Article 6(1) of the GDPR then provides an exhaustive list of the grounds for a
lawful data processing. This article states that processing is only lawful if and for
insofar as at least one of the six principles mentioned is met. The for the college B&W Enschede

 

 

20/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
any eligible bases are:30 c) necessary to comply with a legal
obligation; e) necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or of a task in the
framework of the exercise of public authority; f) legitimate interest.
 
3.3.2.1 Statutory or public interest duties
Article 6(3) of the GDPR provides that the processing of personal data that takes place on the
legal bases c) and e) must be established by Union or Member State law applicable to the
controller applies. The purpose of the processing must be defined in Union law or
Member State law, or is necessary for the fulfillment of the legal basis e)
a task carried out in the public interest or for the exercise of public authority vested in the
controller has been granted.

 

Recital 45 of the GDPR states: “This Regulation does not require that for each individual processing
specific legislation is required. It will suffice to have legislation that serves as the basis for various
processing based on a legal obligation to which the controller is responsible, or for processing that
is necessary for the performance of a task in the public interest or for a task in the exercise of
of public authority. (...)”

 

Recital 41 of the GDPR states that the legislation on the basis of which the processing takes place
should be sufficiently clear, precise and predictable: “This legal basis or legislative measure must
however, be clear and accurate, and their application must be predictable to those to whom it applies
applies, as required by the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘Court of Justice’) and the
European Court of Human Rights.”
 
Bases c) and e) both require that the processing is necessary. This
necessity requirement means that the principles of proportionality and
subsidiarity. The principle of proportionality means that the infringement of the interests of the parties involved in the
processing of the personal data of the persons concerned should not be disproportionate in relation to the
purpose to be served by the processing. Under the principle of subsidiarity, the purpose for which the
personal data are provided in reasonableness not in another, for the processing of
personal data concerned, can be achieved in a less detrimental way.
 
In its view, the B&W Enschede Commission states that the processing operations in the context of WiFi counts
may be based on Article 6(1)(e) of the GDPR. According to the college, the AP misunderstands that the
Municipality of Enschede has a very broad task. It follows from the Municipalities Act that the municipality is responsible for the 'daily'
administration of the municipality. According to the Commission, this task is not simply formulated in broad terms,
but for a well thought out reason. In the eyes of the municipality, its responsibilities, and
in line with this, the need to perform the WiFi counts to meet those different
responsibilities, from various (formal and material) laws and regulations and documents.

                                                                        
30 In the present situation, the data subjects have not been asked for permission (ground a), the WiFi measurements are not necessary for
performance of an agreement with the data subject (ground b) and they are also not necessary to protect certain vital interests
protect (ground d).

 

 

21/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede refers for this to article 160 paragraph 1 sub a and h, article 212 paragraph 1, article 213
paragraph 1, article 172 paragraph 1 of the Municipalities Act. And to the retail agenda of the national government, Vision
bustling city center and the mobility vision, the APV of Enschede, the assessment framework
event permits, the further rules for terraces, the municipal budget and the
subsidy regulation.
 
According to the Municipal Executive of Enschede, pedestrian counts can provide insight into various
aspects that are important for municipalities to be able to base its policy on various levels and
therefore to give substance to the 'public task' that it has towards its residents as a municipality. This one
According to the Commission, information is only really valuable if it is “continuous” information, that is, not
only information based on incidental events. In the eyes of the municipality, the
The chosen method of counting is more privacy-friendly than, for example, manual counting. manual
counting has many drawbacks: double counting cannot be avoided, so manual
counts are not a reliable picture. Moreover, this is very labour-intensive and therefore expensive. In the last
After all, the counter sees by definition which person is where. Other alternatives to
counts other than via WiFi are actually not available. There are infrared counts, but these too
method does not extract double counts from the counts.
 
The AP has asked the Municipal Executive of Enschede whether it is necessary for municipal tasks
to know visitor flows or the number of visitors per (measurement) point. The college B&W Enschede has
stated the following in this regard. At the start of the passer-by counts, the B&W Enschede college was alive
still assuming – on the basis of information that the College obtained from the Bureau at that time
RMC – that Bureau RMC would provide anonymous information about visitor flows. The term
"visitor flows" was also mentioned in the board decision to switch to visitor counts
over Wi-Fi. According to the B&W Enschede Commission, this explains why in the Commission's view there are sometimes
about visitor flows. After the start of the visitor counts and the first results of
the counting data (around the beginning of 2018), however, it turned out that the Municipal Executive could not see any flows, but that it was busy per
sensor point. The B&W Enschede board has therefore declared only the number of passers-by at a certain
point and moment needed.31
 
The AP does not follow the view of the Board of B&W Enschede and arrives at the following assessment.
First of all, the AP notes that the Municipal Executive of Enschede has no legal obligation,
laid down in Union or national law, to have the Wi-Fi measurements performed in the inner city. Also
does not find the processing of personal data to be based on a more broadly formulated duty of care or legal
obligation. The AP therefore first establishes that the B&W Enschede Board cannot successfully appeal
do on the basis of Article 6(1)(c) of the GDPR.
 
The AP then investigates whether the WiFi measurements could be processing that is necessary for
a task of general interest. The AP has already concluded that the WiFi measurements are processing in
within the framework of municipal government tasks. Government tasks are tasks of general interest. That's how it is
the Municipal Executive of Enschede, pursuant to Article 160 of the Municipalities Act, is empowered to ‘execute the day-to-day management of the

                                                                        
31 Letter of 16 February 2021 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP, page 2.

 

 

22/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
to conduct the congregation." This concerns a task of general interest, where, for example, keeping
the finances of the municipality, spatial planning and urban development can be under
grouped.

 

The AP notes that Recital 45 of the GDPR states that not for every individual processing
specific legislation is needed. In the present case, this means that the various processing operations
determined based on a single legal provision. Recital 41 of the GDPR required
however, a certain degree of concreteness of the legislation. This consideration states that the
legislation, in this case the public interest task, must be clear, precise and predictable.32
This foreseeability requirement entails, among other things, that the (legal) consequences of certain actions
must be foreseeable to the citizen to a certain extent.
 
From the requirement that an interference with the exercise of the right to respect for private life as referred to in
Article 8 of the ECHR must be provided for by law («in accordance with the law»).
interference must be based on a duly published legal provision from which the citizen
can determine with sufficient precision which data relating to his private life with a view to
on the fulfillment of a particular government task can be collected and recorded, and under which
conditions that data can be edited, stored and used for that purpose. So required is a
sufficiently precise legal basis. This means that, for example, the general task of a
public service cannot serve as a legal basis for data processing in all cases.33 It means
also that an obligation for a public authority to provide data while that
government agency has a legally regulated duty of confidentiality, expressly and clearly in a
must be laid down by law, and that it is not permissible for such an obligation
is solely inferred from the history of formation or the relationship between legal
provisions or is assumed due to the effectiveness of a statutory regulation.34
 
The AP comes to the conclusion that the legal task of 'leading the day-to-day management of the municipality' is not in place
above requirements, because this task is formulated too broadly, is not concrete and therefore not
is sufficiently predictable.35 A citizen cannot determine sufficiently from Article 160 of the Municipalities Act which
data relating to his private life with a view to the fulfillment of this government task
can be collected and recorded, and under what conditions that data can be used for that purpose
be edited, stored and used. The AP is aware that the legislator Article 160
Municipalities Act has deliberately broadly formulated. This alone has the consequence that this
formulated job description (because of the effectiveness of a statutory regulation) not without
more can serve as a legal basis for this data processing.
 

                                                                        
32 See also ECLI:NL:RBROT:2020:2257 in this context.
33 See also HR 24 February 2017, ECLI:NL:HR:2017:288 (Belastingdienst ANPR case)
34 ABRvS February 3, 2016, ECLI:NL:RVS:2016:253
35 The legislator has explicitly opted for the broadly formulated concept of 'day-to-day management' and not for more elaborate tasks
because 'such a list is almost by definition doomed to be inconclusive'. Parliamentary Papers II 2000/01, 27 751, no. 3, p. 61.

 

 

23/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede further refers in its view to various articles in the
Municipalities Act, the APV and several documents. The AP notes that only Article 160 of the Municipalities Act
jurisdiction of the Municipal Executive of Enschede. The other articles concern powers of other
bodies of the municipality. The Municipal Executive has been designated by the AP as
controller, as a result of which the other articles of law do not apply for that reason
may be as Member State law in which the public interest task is assigned to the controller
assigned is arranged.
 
The AP has also gone through the entire APV of Enschede, but the AP did not come here with any articles
against which a citizen can deduce that the personal data referred to in paragraph 3.1 can be
are processed for government tasks and under what conditions that data can be used for that purpose
be edited, stored and used. The other documents cited by the Municipal Executive
Finally, Enschede cannot be a legal basis for the processing of personal data because this
are not legal requirements.
 
The AP therefore establishes that the Municipal Executive of Enschede cannot in this case successfully invoke the
basis in Article 6(1)(e) of the GDPR. With this, the AP does not mean that a municipality
can never have a legal basis for counting visitors. The legal regulation must
however, formulated more concretely for this situation and thus be sufficiently predictable.
 
Superfluously, the AP also maintains its position that in the present situation the requirements have not been met either
necessity requirement because the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity are not met.
The invasion of the privacy of hundreds of thousands of citizens whose MAC addresses and location data are
sensors are captured and processed is disproportionate to the processing to be served
goal, namely to test the effectiveness of investments in the city center of Enschede. In this
assessment, the AP takes into account that the right to protection of the privacy of
weighs heavily on citizens in the public space, given the reasonable expectation of the public to act as
passer-by cannot be followed unnoticed and the fact that data is systematic and
were recorded for a longer period of time. Especially for residents and frequent visitors to the municipality
Enschede, the present processing of personal data is an extra major breach of protection
of private life. That the B&W Enschede Board did not aim to collect personal data
processing does not alter the fact that personal data is under the responsibility of the college
were processed. This detracts from the citizen's sense of being unnoticed in public
delusions and to have faith in government.
 
In addition, the principle of subsidiarity is also not met because the objectives pursued by the
College B&W Enschede can be served in a different, less far-reaching way. Even on
ways that do not process personal data. The B&W Enschede college has, whether it
intended or unintentional, have personal data processed under his responsibility with which
it was possible to track civilians. However, the Municipal Executive of Enschede has stated that it is not
needs visitor flows but only the crowds per sensor point. As a result, the processing of
personal data under the responsibility of the Municipal Executive of Enschede between 25 May 2018 to

 

 

24/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
and with April 30, 2020 not necessary and also excessive. In addition to the fact that in the
Insufficient technical measures have been taken in the database used, the personal data
also unnecessarily (apart from the raw data) always kept for half a year.
 
There are sufficient methods to measure the crowds at a certain place where the protection of
personal data is better protected. For example, one can gain insight into crowds by:
market surveys. But also people count via an automatic visitor counter that uses an infrared beam
broadcasting is pre-eminently an effective technique. This technique is also affordable and gives the opportunity to
to provide the continuous information that the Municipal Executive of Enschede needs. Double counting is possible
can be filtered out with statistical calculations. Knows almost every methodology or technique used
measurement errors and requires calibration, often also at the level of individual sensors. This allows one to
correct any measurement errors in the counts. In addition, a small measurement error, insofar as this
calibration would still exist, given that one eventually totals and groups numbers, not
insurmountable.
 
3.3.2.2. Legitimate interest
The first paragraph of Article 6 of the GDPR provides that ground (f) legitimate interest does not apply to the
processing by public authorities in the performance of their duties. Recital (47) of
the GDPR provides the following explanation: “(…) Since it is up to the legislator to determine the legal basis for
personal data processing by public authorities, that legal ground should not apply to the
processing by public authorities in the performance of their duties.”

 

Public authorities will not be able to use the basis in the performance of their duties
'legitimate interest', but will have to make use of other bases. This does not apply to
insofar as the government agency carries out 'typically commercial acts' in which personal data
are processed, such as, for example, the processing of personal data that is necessary for the
security of government buildings. For actions that fall outside the scope of the task, there may be
a basis can be assumed in the legitimate interest of the organization. Government
does not differ essentially from a private party in this respect.
 
Article 6, first paragraph, of the GDPR therefore provides that basis f) does not apply to 'processing by'
public authorities in the performance of their duties'. This does not apply to the extent that the
government agency carries out 'typically commercial acts'. The AP has already established that
the purpose of the wifi measurements to test the effectiveness of municipal investments in the
city center of Enschede, with a view to the responsible handling of public funds. the AP
concludes from this that the WiFi measurements are processing in the context of the municipal
government duties. The AP therefore finds that the Municipal Executive of Enschede cannot invoke the
legitimate interest within the meaning of Article 6(1)(f) of the GDPR. It's up to the
legislator to provide the legal basis for personal data processing for such cases
create government agencies.
 

 

 

25/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
In its view, however, the Municipal Executive of Enschede is of the opinion that collecting information
about visitor numbers and visitor flows in the context of WiFi counts is a legitimate interest
for the Municipal Executive of Enschede, the entrepreneurs, investors, visitors and residents. The AP has
according to the B&W Enschede Commission, recognized in the Bluetrace case that there may be a
legitimate interest in collecting such information.36
  
 
Furthermore, the B&W Enschede Commission states that the processing in the context of WiFi counts is
met the necessity requirement. This is because the WiFi counts are necessary to
described interests that are pursued. It is not possible to store this information on
a less invasive way. With WiFi counts, according to the college B&W
Enschede much more sustainable, efficient and reliable results are collected. Here comes
according to the B&W Enschede board, Bureau RMC has taken all kinds of measures that involve
entail compliance with the requirement of proportionality and subsidiarity. As before in
In this view, the Municipal Executive of Enschede has always relied on the expertise of
Bureau RMC as a professional contractor. Furthermore, the municipality of Enschede will inform everyone who
enter the city center of Enschede, actively using warning signs about the WiFi counts. The
stakeholders are also informed about this via the website of the municipality of Enschede.
 
Finally, the B&W Enschede Commission states that Bureau RMC has already corresponded around 2016
with the AP about its working method in the context of WiFi counts. In that context, Bureau RMC has the
AP followed directions provided. In that regard, Bureau RMC was able - partly because the AP subsequently
has not been heard from again – assuming that its working method is in accordance with the
privacy laws and regulations and, moreover, has been approved by the AP.
 
The AP does not follow the view of the Municipal Executive of Enschede and maintains its position that it is
College B&W Enschede cannot successfully invoke the basis of legitimate interest. It
After all, the B&W Enschede Board has explained in detail that the processing operations in the context of
WiFi counts are necessary for municipal government tasks and not for 'typical business'
actions'. The fact that the B&W Enschede Board itself has its statutory duties above
referred underlines this assessment all the more. As a result, the AP does not have access to a
balancing of interests under Article 6(1)(f) of the GDPR. And as for the Bluetrace case,
in that case, it concerns a company and not a government agency, which means that the comparison by the
college B&W Enschede does not apply.
 
Finally, the AP notes that it has indeed closed the investigation into Bureau RMC with a
formal letter. In this letter, the AP has expressly stated that the AP does not express an opinion on the
data processing to which the investigation related. The statement of the B&W Enschede board that
As a result, Bureau RMC could assume that its working method is in accordance with the privacy legislation.
and regulations and, moreover, has been approved by the AP, the AP therefore considers it incorrect.
 
                                                                        
36 CBP, Wifi tracking of mobile devices in and around stores by Bluetrace, z2014-00944, October 13, 2015,
https://www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/sites/default/files/atoms/files/rapport_db_bluetrace.pdf, p. 40.

 

 

26/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

4. Fine
 
4.1 Introduction
 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede has acted contrary to article from 25 May 2018 to 30 April 2020 inclusive
5, first paragraph, under a, jo. Article 6(1) of the GDPR by personal data of owners/users
of mobile devices with Wi-Fi turned on in the city center of Enschede unlawfully
process.
 
For the established violation, the AP makes use of its authority to inform the municipal executive
Enschede to impose a fine. To this end, the AP applies the Fine Policy Rules 2019.37 After this, the AP
first briefly explain the fine system, followed by the motivation of the fine (amount) in the
present case.
 
4.2 Fine policy rules of the Dutch Data Protection Authority 2019
 
Pursuant to Article 58, second paragraph, preamble and under i and Article 83, fifth paragraph, of the GDPR, read in
in conjunction with Article 14, third paragraph, jo. 18 of the UAVG, the AP is authorized to the Municipal Executive of Enschede
to impose an administrative fine in the event of a violation of Articles 5 and 6 of the GDPR
up to €20,000,000. The fine for the present violation of Article 5(1)(a) of the GDPR is:
subject to the underlying provision, being Article 6(1) of the GDPR. This applies
a category III fine, with a fine range between €300,000 and €750,000 and a basic fine of €
525,000. […].38
 
Pursuant to Article 7, without prejudice to Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the General Administrative Law Act
(Awb) taking into account the factors derived from Article 83, second paragraph, of the GDPR and in the
Policy rules referred to under a to k.
 
4.3 Fine amount
 
4.3.1. Assessment circumstances
When asking whether an administrative fine is imposed and the amount thereof, the AP takes into account:
various factors. In this assessment, the AP takes into account, among other things, the nature, size and
number of affected persons.
 
Legality is one of the basic principles of data protection. A processing of
personal data is lawful if it takes place on a legal basis. In the event of an interference with the
private life of the citizen as in the present case is particularly important that a

                                                                        
37 Stcrt. 2019, 14586, March 14, 2019.
38 Article 2, under 2.2 and 2.3 of the Fine Policy Rules in conjunction with. Appendix 2 of the Fine Policy Rules 2019.

 

 

27/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
government agency can base its actions on a sufficiently accessible, accurate and
foreseeable legal requirement. With the collection of personal data without a
basis, the B&W Enschede Commission has violated the principle of lawfulness. This touches
the core of the right to respect for privacy and the protection of
personal data. It detracts from the citizen's feeling of being unnoticed in public
delusions and confidence in government.
 
From May 25, 2018 to April 30, 2020, the college B&W Enschede has no basis
personal data of hundreds of thousands of citizens. This violation was thus
structurally and lasted for a long period of time. From the data collected under
responsibility of the B&W Enschede Board has been processed, a detailed picture can be obtained
drawing up the behavior of (individual) citizens. For example, the living patterns can change a person's living
or workplace, as well as more sensitive data such as visits to medical facilities or
locations that can provide data about a person's sex life.39 The mere fact that this is possible can
lead to citizens no longer feeling unnoticed by the government. In view of this, according to the
AP speaks of a serious situation.
 
In addition to the fact that the Municipal Executive of Enschede is not based on a foreseeable statutory regulation,
processed personal data, the AP also considers it wrong that the Board of B&W Enschede de
has processed personal data excessively and for longer than was necessary for the intended purpose
purposes. If a controller processes location data or has it processed,
the greatest possible care must be taken to prevent this data from being (indirectly)
become identifiable.
 
In view of the above circumstances, the AP sees a reason to send a letter to the B&W Enschede board
fine and the basic amount of the fine pursuant to Article 7, opening words and under a, of the
Fines policy rules 2019 to be increased by € 75,000 to € 600,000.
 
View of the board of B&W Enschede and reaction AP
In its view, the Municipal Executive of Enschede states that there are never special and criminal law cases
personal data has been processed. Given the very limited nature and seriousness of the alleged infringement of the
AVG, the B&W Enschede Commission therefore believes that a fine-reducing circumstance exists.
In addition, according to the college, the parties involved did not suffer any damage. Furthermore, the municipality
Enschede has never been tapped by the AP before because of a violation of the privacy law.
and regulations and the municipality of Enschede has always fully cooperated with the
investigation of the AP. The Municipal Executive of Enschede therefore considers these circumstances to be
fine-reducing factors.
 
The AP does not follow the view of the Municipal Executive of Enschede and motivates this as follows. Like
mentioned above, sensitive data can be derived from the collected data. A
government agency that processes personal data without a legal basis for doing so is
                                                                        
39 See also WP202 Opinion 02/2013 on apps on smart devices.

 

 

28/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
certainly harmful to civilians. In addition, the B&W Enschede college has not substantiated why
those involved have suffered no damage. Despite the AP not having the same breach before
determined by the Municipal Executive of Enschede and according to the Municipal Executive of Enschede there is no question of
damage, the AP sees because of the seriousness of the violation and the culpability of the B&W Enschede Board
there is no reason to refrain from imposing an administrative fine or to reduce the amount of the fine
to lower. Finally, the AP is of the opinion that the cooperation of the Municipal Executive of Enschede is no further
has gone beyond its legal obligation to comply with Article 31 of the GDPR. The college B&W Enschede
has therefore not cooperated with the AP in a special way.
 
4.3.2 Blame and negligent nature of the infringement
Pursuant to Article 5:46, second paragraph, of the Awb, when imposing an administrative fine, the AP
into account the extent to which this can be blamed on the offender.
 
Pursuant to Article 6(1) of the GDPR, processing of personal data is only lawful if
this takes place on an accounting basis. This is a continuation of what already applied under Directive
95/46/EC and the Personal Data Protection Act. The basic principle is that the Municipal Executive
Enschede has its own responsibility to comply with the law from the entry into force of the GDPR
the rules laid down therein. That the processing of data in the context of WiFi counts
took place at Bureau RMC and [CONFIDENTIAL] does not alter this. The college B&W Enschede
has the legal task of determining the processing purposes to assume responsibility
for the data processing regarding the WiFi counts. The college B&W Enschede has left behind
to carefully research the collected data or to obtain legal advice about it. Also
the fact that Bureau RMC had stated in the offer that they convert and validate data to
visitor flows and walking flows of the shopping public, the college B&W Enschede was alert
should ensure that visitor flows could also be displayed from the collected data. In
instead, the B&W Enschede Commission assumed that a third party, with a commercial interest,
took on the responsibility. The AP considers this culpable.
 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede has argued that they have always focused on guaranteeing
privacy with regard to the WiFi counts performed by Bureau RMC. According to the college, this is
as a mitigating circumstance, as they are not intentionally or knowingly
way of processing personal data. Furthermore, the B&W Enschede Board finds that they have not been negligent,
given that the measures taken were aimed at processing purely anonymous data that are not
traceable to individuals.
 
The AP sees no reason, partly with reference to section 3.1.3, to waive the
imposing an administrative fine or reducing the amount of the fine. The AP is of the opinion that
the above-mentioned circumstances do not exculpate the Municipal Executive of Enschede. Of a
government agency, also in view of the large scale of the data processing, it may be expected that
it thoroughly ascertains and complies with the standards that apply to it. Especially in a society
where it is increasingly difficult to anonymize data. The B&W Enschede college had more research
to the data processed under its responsibility. Or Bureau RMC de

 

 

29/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
agreements with the Municipal Executive of Enschede have or have not been complied with, is a civil matter between Bureau
RMC and the college. The AP also notes that the violated provision of Article 6, first paragraph, of the GDPR
no intent required as a component. Since this is a violation, the imposition of a
administrative fine, in accordance with established case law, does not require that it be demonstrated that there is intent.40
The AP may assume culpability if the perpetrator has been established.41
 
4.3.3 Proportionality and financial circumstances
Finally, on the basis of Articles 3:4 and 5:46 of the Awb (principle of proportionality), the AP assesses whether the
applying its policy for determining the amount of the fine given the circumstances of the
specific case, does not lead to a disproportionate outcome. Application of the principle of proportionality may
among other things, play in the capacity of the controller.
 
The Municipal Executive of Enschede has asked the AP to take the financial circumstances into account
of the municipality, without expressly stating that there is a limited financial
carrying capacity. According to the Municipal Executive of Enschede, it is generally known that in almost all municipalities in
The finances are under pressure in the Netherlands due to, among other things, Corona.42
 
According to what the AP understands, the B&W Enschede Commission does not want to expressly state that there is a
limited financial capacity, but that the AP must take into account the financial
circumstances of the municipality. Regardless of this conflicting signal, the AP has
figures from the municipality of Enschede were consulted. On the basis of the (by the municipality of Enschede .)
self-published) figures that the municipality of Enschede had general reserves of almost 60 . at the end of 2020
million euros and receivables of 40 million euros.43 In view of these general reserves and liquidity, the
AP it is unlikely that the present fine will cause continuity problems at the municipality of Enschede
yield.
 
In conclusion, the AP sees no reason to refrain from imposing an administrative fine or to
to reduce the fine. The AP considers the fine of € 600,000 proportional and there are no other options
facts and circumstances that require moderation of the aforementioned amount.
 
4.4 Conclusion
The AP sets the total fine at € 600,000.
 
 

 

                                                                        
40 cf. Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal 29 October 2014, ECLI:NL:CBB:2014:395, para. 3.5.4, September 2, 2015,
ECLI:NL:CBB:2015:312, para. 3.7 and 7 March 2016, ECLI:NL:CBB:2016:54, para. 8.3; Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State 29
August 2018, ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:2879, para. 3.2 and 5 December 2018, ECLI:NL:RVS:2018:3969, para. 5.1.
41 Parliamentary Papers II 2003/04, 29 702, no. 3, p. 134.
42 Letter of 16 February 2021 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP, page 3.
43 Municipal budget 2021-2024, paragraph 5.3. See: https://documents.enschede.nl/gb2021.

 

 

30/58



 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Date
March 11, 2021

 

5. Operative part

The AP explains to the college of mayor and aldermen of the municipality of Enschede, because of
violation of Article 5, first paragraph, under a, jo. Article 6(1) of the GDPR imposes an administrative fine on
amounting to €600,000 (six hundred thousand euros).44
 
Yours faithfully,
Authority Personal Data,
 
 
w.g.
 
drs. C.E. Mur
board member
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Remedies Clause
If you do not agree with this decision, you can return it within six weeks of the date of dispatch of the
decide to submit a notice of objection digitally or on paper to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Submit it
of a notice of objection suspends the effect of this decision. For submitting a digital objection, see
www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl, under the heading Objecting to a decision, at the bottom of the
page under the heading Contact with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The address for paper submission
is: Dutch Data Protection Authority, PO Box 93374, 2509 AJ The Hague.
State 'Awb objection' on the envelope and put 'objection' in the title of your letter.
In your notice of objection, write at least:
- your name and address;
- the date of your notice of objection;
- the reference mentioned in this letter (case number); or attach a copy of this decision;
- the reason(s) why you do not agree with this decision;
- your signature.

 

                                                                        
44 The AP will hand over the aforementioned claim to the Central Judicial Collection Agency (CJIB).
 

 

 

31/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

 

Attachment 1

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 

 

 

32/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
1. Facts about the concept of personal data
 
1.1 The sensors installed in the city center of Enschede
If the Wi-Fi is turned on on a mobile device, the device will broadcast at regular intervals
intermittently signals that it is looking for a network to connect to. The sensors that are
hung in the city center of Enschede receive these signals. An employee of
[CONFIDENTIAL] has stated that consumer routers are used as sensors in Enschede
used.45

 

The Municipal Executive of Enschede has stated that the WiFi measurements are carried out using eleven
sensors. These eleven sensors were installed on 25 May 2018 and this number has not changed since.46 Office
RMC has confirmed this.47 Finally, it also follows from the data collected with the sensors that the AP
received in the context of the investigation48 and from the information on the website
www.binnenstadsmonitorenschede.nl where use is made of the . collected with the sensors
data.

 

It follows from the information provided by Bureau RMC that the sensors were installed at eleven different locations
shopkeepers located in the city center of Enschede.49 Supervisors of the AP have on 29
visited a number of these retailers in May 2019 and have the cabinets below containing the
routers found.50

 

Figure 1: Two sensors found at two different retailers

 

                                                                        
45 Page 2 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
46 Answers to the 'Questions about the sensors', letter of 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 26).
47 Page 1 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
48 Citytraffic_nummer_telpunt 4 Excel sheets and Citytraffic_weekoverzicht 4 Excel sheets, appendices 14 and 15 in a letter dated 24 May 2019 from
college B&W Enschede at the AP (file document 26). Export Enschede sep-dec long term table.zip, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on
December 12, 2019 (file document 69) and Export Enschede Jun - Aug 2019 long term table.zip, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 16
December 2019 (file document 72).
49 Excel list location sensors, attachment to e-mail of 23 May 2019 from Bureau RMC to the AP (file document 25).
50 Statements of Official acts on the spot investigation at eight shopkeepers in the city center of Enschede according to Bureau RMC
hang a sensor like this (file documents 30-38).

 

 

33/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The director of Bureau RMC has stated that the range of each sensor is basically the other side of the
street.51 Bureau RMC states on the website www.citytraffic.nl that this range is 20 to 30 meters
is .52
 
Based on the foregoing, the AP has established that there have been eleven sensors in place since May 25, 2018
at various retailers in the city center of Enschede. Each sensor has a range of 20 to 30 meters.
  
1.2 The processing of data using the City Traffic method
Bureau RMC calls the method to use sensors to collect data from mobile devices on which the WiFi is located
enabled to collect and process them into reports using the 'City Traffic method'. This City Traffic
method is applied in the city center of Enschede. On the website of Bureau RMC there is a
infographic visualizing this method (as of 1 January 2019).53 In this section, the AP discusses the
different phases of data collection and processing by means of the City Traffic method.
 

Figure 2: Infographic City Traffic method after January 1, 2019

 

 
 
 
                                                                        
51 Page 2 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
52 www.citytraffic.nl/hoe-we-telen.
53 Screen images of web pages on www.rmc.nl captured on 26 April 2019 (file document 10).

 

 

34/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The collection of data by the sensors and transmission to the server
The first phase concerns the capture by the sensors of certain data from mobile devices
on which the Wi-Fi is turned on. Each sensor has a specific range and in this section
demonstrated that both on entry into range and on exit from range, data from the
mobile device and then sent partially pseudonymized to the
central server.
 
During the on-site investigation on May 29, 2019, an employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] stated
that the same software runs on every sensor in the city center of Enschede and that therefore every sensor
has the same effect.54 The employee has further stated that the functioning of the sensors is not
changed since 25 May 2018.55

 

When asked by the AP which data from mobile devices is collected by the sensors,
an employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] replied: “The MAC address, location ID of
the sensor, the date and time of reception of the Wi-Fi signal on the sensor, and the signal strength. Also on the
sensor tracked when you are first seen by the sensor and when you were last seen.” 56

 

A device's aforementioned MAC address is a factory-built globally unique
number.57 It is a string of 12 hexadecimal characters (0-9, A-F) in the form 00:0C:6E:D2:11:E6. Like
previously stated, a device with Wi-Fi turned on will transmit the signal at regular intervals
that it is looking for a network to connect to. Via this signal, the MAC address of the
device detected by a sensor.

 

Later in the statement, an employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] indicated that the sensors
It is also determined whether a captured MAC address is a so-called 'spoofed MAC address': “It concerns
broadcasting a fake MAC address, to prevent phone tracking (e.g. by Apple). Spoofed
we do not include addresses in our counts (…).”58

 

It appears from the software code provided by [CONFIDENTIAL] to the AP that runs on the sensors that the
next on the sensor happens as soon as a Wi-Fi enabled device is within range of the sensor
coming:59
1. The device's MAC address and signal strength are captured.
2. The date and exact time of receipt will be determined.

                                                                        
54 Page 2 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
55 Page 2 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
56 Page 1 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
57 Page 6 of WP185 Opinion 13/2011 on geolocation services on smart mobile devices.
58 Page 10 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
59 [CONFIDENTIAL] and Declaration of Official acts analysis source code of 18 February 2020 (file document 78).

 

 

35/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
3. The MAC address, signal strength, date and time are stored in the working memory of the

sensor (as long as the device is within range of the sensor).60

4. It is determined whether the MAC address is a spoofed MAC address or not.61
5. The MAC address is pseudonymised (see next section 0).
6. The following data is sent to the server: Pseudonymized MAC address,

signal strength, date, time, spoofed indicator and sensor ID62, associated with 'status 1' to
indicate that the relevant data relates to the moment the mobile device entered the
range came.63

 

About the moment when the MAC address is pseudonymised, the director of Bureau RMC
declared: “It will be replaced on the sensor immediately, so the sensor will have the MAC address immediately.”64 Also
the website www.citytraffic.nl states that the MAC address is immediately pseudonymised.65 The AP
notes, however, that this is not confirmed by the sensors software code. It shows
namely, as explained in the previous marginal number, that there are unpseudonymized MAC addresses
are stored in the working memory of the sensors.

 

An employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] has stated the following about what happens as long as a
Wi-Fi enabled device is within range of a sensor: “The MAC address will be used throughout the
time captured, the sensor checks if the MAC address has been seen before, if so, it increases the last seen time and this
process repeats until the MAC address has not been seen for two minutes.”66 The software code and its own analysis
of this software code by a supervisor of the AP confirms this effect.67

 

An employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] stated the following about when the data will be
forwarded to a server: “The status 1 message is forwarded directly to the server, the status 2 message as
the MAC address is out of sight for two minutes. It is forwarded live, not every minute for example. So from each
passer-by, data is sent twice.”68 The software code and our own analysis of this
software code by a supervisor of the AP confirms this effect.69 Collecting both the
time when the MAC address first comes in range (state 1) as the last seen time
(state 2) is used to determine the dwell time of the MAC address within the range of the sensor,
see appendix 1, page 42 et seq. (long-term table).
                                                                        
60 This has been confirmed by the employees of [CONFIDENTIAL], page 3 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees
[CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49 and 55).
61 The indicator is 1 if the MAC address is spoofed and 0 if the MAC address is not spoofed.
62 This is a unique number associated with each sensor.
63 In addition to 'status 1', a 'status 2' is also used, this refers to the moment that the range of the sensor has been left.
64 Page 3 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55). Bureau RMC and the employees of [CONFIDENTIAL] sometimes use the term 'hashing' in their statements to
to signify pseudonymization.
65 Screenshots of web pages www.citytraffic.nl captured on 31 July 2019 (file document 54).
66 Page 3 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
67 [CONFIDENTIAL] and Declaration of Official acts analysis source code of 18 February 2020 (file document 78).
68 Page 2 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
69 [CONFIDENTIAL] and Declaration of Official Acts analysis source code of 18 February 2020 (file document 78).

 

 

36/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The software code shows that as soon as a detected mobile device is out of range of the sensor that
the following data is sent to the server: Status '2', pseudonymised MAC address,
last signal strength measured in range, last measured date and time in range (this
refers to the time minus the two minutes), spoofed indicator and sensor ID.70

 

When asked how long the MAC addresses remain in the working memory of each sensor, a
employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] replied: “The data will be sent to the server as soon as it is
detected that the device is no longer in range of the sensor for 2 minutes. Then the data from the sensor disappears.
So how long the data is kept depends on how long someone is in the area/range of the sensor plus 2
minutes.”71 The software code and an own analysis of this software code by a supervisor of the
AP confirms this operation.72
 
On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that from May 25, 2018 to the present, every sensor
had the same effect in the city center of Enschede. During this period, the sensors have
all mobile devices within range with Wi-Fi enabled the MAC address,
signal strength, date and time collected and temporarily stored in the working memory of the sensor.
This save lasted as long as the device was within range of the sensor plus two minutes.
The AP also notes that the sensors are continuously scanning. Finally, the AP establishes that there are of each
detected device on entry and two minutes after leaving the sensor range in real time
the following data has been sent to the server: status 1 or 2, pseudonymised MAC address,
signal strength, date and time, spoofed indicator and sensor ID.
 
Pseudonymizing the MAC address on the sensors
An employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] has stated that the same on every sensor in Enschede
pseudonymization method is applied and that this method has not been changed since May 25, 2018.73
When asked by the AP which method is used, an employee of [CONFIDENTIAL]
replied: “[CONFIDENTIAL]”74 This is also apparent from the software code75 and a [CONFIDENTIAL]
drafted document on the pseudonymization method.76

 

During the on-site investigation on May 29, 2019, an employee of [CONFIDENTIAL]
stated: “One MAC address yields practically one hashed number, there is minimal chance of collision namely that two
MAC addresses the same

                                                                        
70 [CONFIDENTIAL] and Declaration of Official acts analysis source code of 18 February 2020 (file document 78).
71 Page 2 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
72 [CONFIDENTIAL] and Declaration of Official acts analysis source code of 18 February 2020 (document document 78).
73 Pages 2 and 4 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019
(file documents 49 and 55). The [CONFIDENTIAL] employee has also stated that the same method is used on all their sensors
running in the Netherlands.
74 Page 4 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
75 [CONFIDENTIAL] and Declaration of Official acts analysis source code of 18 February 2020 (file document 78).
76 MAC hashing analysis prepared by [CONFIDENTIAL] (no date), received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 3 June 2019 (file document
43).

 

 

37/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
hashed value.”77 The document on the pseudonymization method shows that
[CONFIDENTIAL] chose this method precisely because there is only a negligible chance
on equal results.78

 

Based on the foregoing, the AP concludes that one and the same pseudonymization method is running
on all sensors in the city center of Enschede and that this method has not been changed since 25 May 2018.
In addition, the AP determines that the pseudonymization results in one MAC address on each of the
sensors leads to one and the same pseudonymised MAC address.
 
The short-term table on the server
For this, the AP has established that in any case from May 25, 2018 in the city center of Enschede van
any mobile device with Wi-Fi turned on that has passed through the range of a sensor there
data from the mobile device twice, i.e. when entering range and two minutes after
departure from the range, real-time are sent to the server. In addition, the AP concluded that per
January 1, 2019 all pseudonymized MAC addresses incoming to the server will be truncated.
About this, an employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] stated: “If the hashed 79 MAC address comes in
it is truncated in memory (real time) and it is then written into a raw table, (…).”80

 

Also, an employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] stated: “We use two tables on the server. A
short-term table containing today's data and a long-term table containing 6 months' data.”81 The AP
will first deal with the short-term table.

 

About what will be truncated from the pseudonymised MAC address as of January 1, 2019, a
employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] stated: “[CONFIDENTIAL], omitting the colon.”82
And: “Only the hashed MAC address is clipped and the rest of the data doesn't change that.”83
software code confirms the foregoing, with the addition that also the colons from the clipped
pseudonymised MAC address are removed.84 The result after clipping is a series of
[CONFIDENTIAL] consisting of 0-9 or a-z without colons (see MACNUMBER column in
Figure 3).
 

                                                                        
77 Page 5 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
78 Page 3 last paragraph and page 4 third paragraph MAC hashing analysis prepared by [CONFIDENTIAL] (no date), received
of [CONFIDENTIAL] on 3 June 2019 (document 43).
79 [CONFIDENTIAL] uses the term 'hashed' here as an alternative to 'pseudonymized'.
80 Page 6 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
81 Page 7 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
82 Page 6 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
83 Page 6 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
84 [CONFIDENTIAL] and Declaration of Official Acts analysis source code of 18 February 2020 (file document 78).

 

 

38/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
During the on-site investigation, an employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] contacted the supervisors of
gave the AP access to the short-term table.85 In addition, these employees have a
part of the short-term table with the data collected in Enschede on 29 May 2019 supplied
to the AP.86 A screenshot of the first few records of this short-term table filtered by the
sensor [CONFIDENTIAL] concerns:

 
Figure 3: Screenshot of the first part of the short-term table for May 29, 2019 for a sensor

An employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] has provided the following explanation of the columns:

“-
-
-
-
-
-

-

 'HOSTNAME' is the unique identifier of the sensor, the location ID of a sensor.
"MACNUMBER" is the pseudonymized and truncated MAC address.
 'DATE' is the day-week-year.
“TIME” is the time on that day when the device was scanned. (…).
“SIGNAL” is the signal strength with which the device was detected.
'STATUS' 1 is the moment he was first sighted and status 2 is the moment he was outside
the range of the sensor.
'SPOOFED' is 1 if it was a spoofed MAC address (and 0 if not). (…).”87

 

                                                                        
85 Statement of Official acts on-site investigation Bureau RMC and [CONFIDENTIAL] on 29 May 2019 (document 39).
86 Export Enschede 29-5-2019.zip, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 3 June 2019 (document document 42). The first detection (record in the
table) was at time 00:00:00 and the last one at time 20:20:37.
87 Pages 9 and 10 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019
(file documents 49 and 55).

 

 

39/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The AP notes that DATE is recorded at the day level and the TIME is recorded to the second. The
HOSTNAME is the unique sensor ID, each of the eleven sensors in the city center of Enschede has a
unique [CONFIDENTIAL] code.88
 
In the screenshot above there are two consecutive status 1 and status 2 records in blue and in red
of the same truncated pseudonymised MAC address boxed ([CONFIDENTIAL]). Later shows
the AP recommends that each of these two records be merged into one record in the long-term table.
 
On the basis of the foregoing, the AP has established that, at least since 25 May 2018, the data collected on one
day are measured by the sensors in the city center of Enschede are collected daily in the
short-term table.89 The time of day when the device was scanned by the sensor is
exactly to the second. In the period up to January 1, 2019, the pseudonymised MAC-
address is not cut off on arrival at the server, in the period from January 1, 2019 it is. cutting it off
involves removing the last three characters of the pseudonymised MAC address (without
colon). The other data sent to the server, namely sensor ID, date, time,
signal strength, status and spoofed indicator are taken raw in the short-term table.
 
The application of filters
During the on-site investigation at Bureau RMC on May 29, 2019, an employee of
[CONFIDENTIAL] stated that on the short-term table, covered in the previous paragraph, every night
certain filters are applied and the remaining records are added to the long-term table
added.90 This employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] explained about this in a document: “The
code for the filters (…) run in the morning at 00:15:00 in time zone Europe/Amsterdam on the detections of the previous
day. We use two types of filters when processing the data from the RAWRESULTS_HTTP_WIFI table to
tables containing the data for a longer period of time. These are the opt-out filter and the resident filter.”91
 
The explanation of [CONFIDENTIAL] on the opt-out filter concerns: “The opt-out filter removes detections from the
(…) table when the detections contain a hashed and truncated mac address that is also in the opt-out list.”92

 

The B&W Enschede college has been giving about this opt-out list since the start of the WiFi measurements on the website
of the municipality the following explanation: “Everyone has the possibility to use their MAC addresses from mobile phones.”
devices on the City Traffic website for an opt-out register. After this, these MAC addresses are not
longer counted and included in our studies. The opt-out register can be found at http://citytraffic.nl/site/page/opt-

                                                                        
88 During the on-site investigation at Bureau RMC on May 29, 2019, the AP was given a list with the sensor IDs and the corresponding street
in the city center of Enschede.
89 With the exception of the period from December 10, 2018 to January 3, 2019, because when the sensors were disabled, see
appendix 1, paragraph 2.5.
90 Page 7 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
91 Page 3 of source code, clipping and filters.pdf, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 20 June 2019 (file document 46).
92 Page 3 of source code, clipping and filters.pdf, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 20 June 2019 (document 46).

 

 

40/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
out.”93 The webpage mentioned at www.citytraffic.nl contains a field that allows someone to enter the MAC
address of his/her mobile device on the opt-out list.

 

The AP notes that because the opt-out filter is only applied to the short-term table, it is not the case that
MAC addresses that have been specified are no longer captured by the sensors.

 

The explanation of [CONFIDENTIAL] on the resident filter concerns: “The resident filter removes the detections
from the (…) table for a mac address when the mac address at the same scanner on a day between 05:00 and 07:00
has been seen as between 22:00 and 23:59:59.” 94

 

The software code shows that the resident filter works as follows:95 all records of a clipped
pseudonymised MAC address in the short-term table will be removed if that's clipped
pseudonymised MAC address between 5 a.m. and 7 a.m. and between 10 p.m. and midnight in or out of range of
the same sensor. There must be a detection in both time periods. This effect has
As a result, if, for example, a person with a mobile device with Wi-Fi turned on
lives within range of a sensor and is at home all day, the records of his/her mobile
device are not filtered out. The same applies, for example, to residents who only live between 5 and 7 or
leave the house or come home between 10 p.m. and midnight.

 

With regard to the resident filter, the AP notes that it collected every night on the daily
data is applied, which means that every day it is determined again whether someone qualifies as
resident or not.96 It follows from Figure 7 on page 48 that the qualification can differ from day to day.

 

Since the start of the WiFi measurements in September 2017, the B&W Enschede college has published on the website of
the municipality the following Q&A are for residents of the city center of Enschede:97
“I live in the city centre, what is done with my data?
City Traffic counts the number of passers-by in the shopping street. The sensors therefore have an automatic filter to protect residents
not included in the counts. City Traffic knows that signals from residents mainly before and after
store opening hours are measured. That is why City Traffic assumes that when the same signal is sent twice a
seen during the day, once in the morning and once in the evening, this is a signal from a resident. These signals become
automatically filtered out every day from then on. If you live near a counting point, you will not be
included in the counts.”

 

The AP notes that this text contains several inaccuracies. First, it says that the sensors are filtering
apply while this is done on the server. Second, it is suggested that once
determines whether someone lives near a sensor and then automatically gets out every day
filtered out, when in reality the filter determines every night whether someone is a resident or not.
                                                                        
93 www.enschede.nl/sites/default/files/QandAokt2017.pdf, last visited by the AP on January 6, 2020.
94 Page 3 of source code, clipping and filters.pdf, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 20 June 2019 (document 46).
95 ConvertWifi.php, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on June 20, 2019 (document 46). Declaration of Official acts analysis
source code of February 18, 2020 (file document 78).
96 Declaration of Official acts analysis source code of 18 February 2020 (document document 78).
97 Q&As, appendices 5 and 6 to the letter of 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 26).

 

 

41/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Finally, the statement that residents are not included in the counts is not correct in all cases,
as follows from the analysis of the resident filter above.

 

On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that there are two filters on the short-term table every night
are applied, namely an opt-out filter and a resident filter. These filters result in
certain records from the short-term table do not end up in the long-term table. In addition
the AP notes that the resident filter does not filter out all residents and that the website of the
municipality is given incorrect information about this.
 
The long-term table on the server
Because the truncation of the pseudonymised MAC address was introduced on January 1, 2019, the
long-term table until January 1, 2019 pseudonymised MAC addresses and after January 1, 2019 only
truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses. An employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] has
stated: “We have retroactively deleted the hashed mac addresses that were in the database around that period
cut off. 98

 

On September 6, 2019, at the request of the AP, [CONFIDENTIAL] released the long-term table with the
data about Enschede for only 29 May 2019.99 A screenshot of the first few
records from this long-term table, filtered by the two truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses
boxed in the short-term table in Figure 3 concerns:
 

Figure 4: Screenshot of Long-Term Table Section

 

From a comparison between the blue and red boxed records in the short-term table and the
long-term table (Figure 3 and Figure 4) shows that two consecutive records (with status 1 and 2) of
the same truncated pseudonymised MAC address in the short-term table results in one record in the
long-term table. The timeIn (state 1) and TimeOut (state 2) are sequenced and the Retention in

                                                                        
98 Page 3 of source code, clipping and filters.pdf, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on June 20, 2019 (document 46) and page 6 of
report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49 and 55).
99 Export Enschede 29-5-2019 long term table.zip, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 6 September 2019 (document 60).

 

 

42/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
seconds (the time in between) is calculated. It also appears from the comparison of both tables that spoofed
MAC addresses in the short-term table are not included in the long-term table.100

  

[CONFIDENTIAL] has provided the following explanation in a document on the columns in the
long-term table:101
“ID = id of record
Mac = truncated hash value of a mac address
Date = Date of sighting
TimeIn= observation start time
TimeOff = end time observation
Retention = TimeOut – TimeIn

BWCode = detection type (B = bluetooth, W = wifi),
nowadays we only have W detections
SignalStrengthIn = signal strength start time
observation
SignalStrengthOut = signal strength end time
observation
LocationId = always 0, no longer in use”

 

The AP notes that in the above list by [CONFIDENTIAL] the column “[CONFIDENTIAL]” per
was mistakenly not included, this column refers to the aforementioned sensor ID. In addition, the AP . notes
that the TimeIn and TimeOUT are in seconds, so the Retention is also in seconds.

 

About the retention period of the data in the long-term table, Bureau RMC has stated: “At the
Municipality of Enschede, it was a storage period of six months from the start of the counts, this has not been the case since then
changed.”102 It was later explained by the director of Bureau RMC that on the first of the month the
data from the month from six months ago will be deleted.103

 

On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that, after applying the filters to the short-term table,
two consecutive records of the same (truncated) pseudonymized MAC address resulted in one
record in the long-term table. From May 25, 2018 to January 1, 2019, the long-term table contained the
following data: pseudonymised MAC address, date, TimeIn, TimeOut, Retention, SignalStrengthIn,
SignalStrengthOut. As of January 1, 2019, the pseudonymised MAC-
address and the pseudonymised MAC address given was replaced by the truncated
pseudonymised MAC address. The AP also notes that in the long-term table from May 25, 2018
data covered a period of between six and seven months.
 
The processing of the raw data and the figures that the Municipal Executive of Enschede receives from Bureau RMC
The data in the long-term table form the basis for the figures that the Municipal Executive of Enschede van
Bureau RMC receives. It follows from the following statements by the director of Bureau RMC that the
data in the long-term table is first deduplicated and then statistical operations are performed on it
are applied.
 
                                                                        
100 See also Appendix 1, paragraph 1.2, page 35, which includes the statement of employees [CONFIDENTIAL] that spoofed MAC
addresses are not included in the counts.
101 Columns.doc, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on September 6, 2019 (file document 60).
102 Page 7 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
103 E-mails of 20 December 2019 and 15 January 2020 from Bureau RMC to the AP (file documents 76 and 77).

 

 

43/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
An employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] during the on-site investigation on May 29, 2019
declared: “Yes, within a zone we deduplicate.” The director of Bureau RMC added: “We want this
deduplicate because we are looking for unique visitors to the city center. The customer is looking for wallets and
not to passers-by. Someone who has been counted 10 times is not 10 times a buyer, but is 1x a buyer who has been seen 10 times. The customers want
know the number of unique visitors within a zone. (…). So when the two of you walk into the city center of Enschede and
there is no one else, then you only return to the first sensor where you were seen in the aggregated half-hour image.
This does not apply to measuring, if you walk through the city center of Enschede you will be seen at every sensor and this is
right in the raw data.” 104

 

An employee of [CONFIDENTIAL] then stated: “In order to deduplicate we have it
pseudonymised MAC address. We count unique numbers, so if a MAC address is captured by the
sensor and that MAC address comes back there an hour later then we see it's the same phone because it's the same hash.
The pseudonymization method is the same on all sensors and we anonymize on the server by clipping so we
can see across the set of sensors if the same MAC address has been true (not just on the sensor). We do have
loss of detail because we cut off on the server, but with a certain degree of certainty we can say that the same
phone went to sensor A and later to sensor B.”
 
The director has informed about the statistical operations that are subsequently applied to the deduplicated data
van Bureau RMC stated: “A one-off 'manual calibration' was carried out during the installation of each sensors. Then the conversion becomes
determined from the number of signals to the number of passers-by, because not everyone has their WiFi switched on. This is what we do
one-off and further, we conduct market research into the possible increase or decrease in Wi-Fi use.” 105
And: “During the manual calibration, it is determined what percentage of the passers-by is, for example, a cyclist. This
percentage is later deducted from the collected data so that we are left with only the passers-by. This is a
probability calculation. This makes our counts a little less reliable because how many cyclists and cars pass by on the
We apply the time of calibration as an average for the whole day. We also tell our customers this very emphatically.” 106

 

At the request of the AP, the B&W Enschede college has some reports that it has from Bureau RMC
received to the AP.107 It follows from this that the B&W Enschede Commission first of all made estimates
receives figures and graphs from various variables about the unique visitors to downtown
Enschede. Below is a screenshot shown with the numbers for the week from April 1, 2019 to April 7
2019.108 The names of the eleven sensors are also included here.
 

                                                                        
104 Page 9 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
105 Page 8 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
106 Page 8 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
107 Printout report week 37 2018 from City Traffic Tool, appendix 2 to the letter of 20 September 2018 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the
AP (file document 3). Citytraffic_nummer_telpunt 4 Excel sheets and Citytraffic_weekoverzicht 4 Excel sheets, appendix 14 and 15 to the letter from
May 24, 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 26).
108 enschede_Whole_export_2019w14.xls in Citytraffic_weekoverzicht 4 Excel sheets, annex 15 to the letter of 24 May 2019 from the
college B&W Enschede at the AP (file document 26).

 

 

44/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Figure 5: Weekly report from Bureau RMC to B&W Enschede, week 1 to 7 April 2019

Secondly, the B&W Enschede Board receives estimates of the number of unique visitors per hour per hour
sensor.109
 

On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that the Municipal Executive of Enschede receives estimates of
different variables about unique visitors to the city center of Enschede. For this
the applicable data in the long-term table is deduplicated based on the clipped
pseudonymised MAC address and then certain statistical calculations are performed on it
applied.
 
Privacy protocol City Traffic method of Bureau RMC
Specifically about the processing of personal data in the context of the City Traffic method
Bureau RMC has drawn up a privacy protocol. During the period from 25 May 2018 to 21 April
2020 there will be two successive versions of this privacy protocol on the Bureau RMC website
the following passages were included in both versions:110

 

1.1 In order to make our services possible, we process various passer-by data. The passer-by details
include data from passers-by that can be traced directly or indirectly to an individual passer-by. The passer-by details
are therefore to be regarded as personal data within the meaning of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
(…).

 

3.1 (…) The analysis results are reported to our clients on an aggregated basis only. This
means that the data in these reports can no longer be traced back to the encrypted number (of the MAC
address of the device) of a passer-by, nor to the data of a device that a passer-by carries with him.
We therefore do not provide any personal data to our clients.”
 

                                                                        
109 Answer to 'Questions about the information that the municipality of Enschede receives from the RMC office' and Citytraffic_nummer_telpunt 4
Excel sheets, appendix 14 to a letter dated 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 26).
110 Privacy protocol for pedestrian counts Bureau RMC last update April 10, 2018 (file document 8) and Privacy protocol for pedestrian counts
Bureau RMC last update January 22, 2019 (file document 11).

 

 

45/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
In the first passage Bureau RMC declares that in the context of the City Traffic method
personal data within the meaning of the GDPR. The privacy protocol does not specify until which moment in
the phase of the processing process this is the case. From the text at step 4 'Anonymize' in the infographic
about the City Traffic method (see Figure 2), the AP infers that Bureau RMC is of the opinion that it
personal data is processed up to the moment of anonymisation. The text reads: “On the server
the pseudonymised data is truncated so that it cannot in any way be traced back to a unique device or
individual. The data we have is therefore anonymous.”
 
On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that Bureau RMC specifically sees this in its privacy protocol
to processing via the City Traffic method, has stated that it and/or its partners from any
case 25 May 2018 processing personal data within the meaning of the GDPR. The AP also concludes that Bureau
RMC has included in its privacy protocol that the reports that clients of Bureau RMC
received do not contain any personal data.
 
Life patterns can be traced from the long-term table
As is established by the AP in Appendix 1 paragraph 2.5, Bureau RMC has the
'anonymize on the server' entered. This means that for each pseudonymised MAC address at
reception on the server the last three characters (without colon) are removed.

 

The AP notes that, unlike about pseudonymizing the MAC address, the AP of
[CONFIDENTIAL] whether Bureau RMC has not received a document with an extensive explanation of
the cutting and why this method of anonymization was chosen.111 In general, it applies that
snipping an attribute is an anonymization technique that makes an attribute
generalized. For example, times in minutes can be generalized to a
time interval (hour, day, month).

 

The truncation results in not one but several pseudonymised MAC addresses leading to
one and the same truncated pseudonymised MAC address.112. The clipping refers to worldwide
issued MAC addresses; MAC addresses are not issued by country or location.

  

In order to test whether the cutting at a local level, namely in the city center of Enschede, has led to
enough mobile devices with the same truncated pseudonymised MAC address to transfer the data
anonymity, an AP supervisor has the long-term table of data from a number of
common truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses for weeks 23 through 34 of
analysed.113 If there are locally enough devices with the same truncated pseudonymised
MAC address in the city center then no living patterns should be visible in
the data. This is because it concerns the living patterns of multiple devices (and therefore people).

                                                                        
111 The document on the pseudonymization method concerns the document MAC hashing analysis prepared by [CONFIDENTIAL],
received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 3 June 2019 (file document 43).
112 See page 19 of WP 216 Opinion 5/2014 on anonymization techniques.
113 Export Enschede sep-dec long term table.zip and Export Enschede Jun - Aug 2019 long term table.zip, provided by
[CONFIDENTIAL] on 12 and 16 December 2019 (file documents 69 and 72).

 

 

46/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
After its own investigation, the AP has found that the data of certain cut-off
pseudonymised MAC address, clear living patterns of individuals can be derived. This follows from
the Figure 6, Figure 7, Figure 8 and Figure 9 included below containing visualizations of the data
of four truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses.114 In each visualization, the days are displayed horizontally
of the week and vertically the week number in 2019. Each gray square represents a whole day, from 0:00 s
night until 23:59:59. The hours 8:00 and 18:00 are highlighted. A colored line or area means that the
truncated pseudonymised MAC address in question from the start moment to the end moment in
range of that sensor.
 
The first visualization below shows consistent presence within the range of the sensor
[CONFIDENTIAL] (red), namely every Monday afternoon, Wednesday and Saturday from about 10:00 to
18:00 and Thursday from about 10:00 to 21:00. The pattern closely resembles the
shopping hours that apply in the city center of Enschede, where it is shopping evening on Thursday.115 Also follows
from the pattern that the truncated pseudonymised MAC address every last Sunday of the month before
was within the red sensor for a few hours. Given this pattern, the AP does not consider it inconceivable that the
belongs to an employee or manager of one of the stores in the Langestraat in Enschede,
where the [CONFIDENTIAL] sensor hangs.116
 

Figure 6: First Visualization of Clipped Pseudonymized MAC Address

 

                                                                        
114 Declaration of Official acts analysis long-term table of 18 February 2020 (file document 79).
115 https://www.enschede.nl/vrijtijd/openingstijden-winkels-en-koopzondagen
116 Excel list location sensors, attachment to e-mail of 23 May 2019 from Bureau RMC to the AP (file document 25).

 

 

 

47/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
As with the visualization above, there are also several hours in one day in the visualization below
presence within range of one sensor (pink). Here it is striking that on one day there is either no
registration is visible (no dashes) or registrations spread over the day. This is the result of the
page 40 and 41 described the fact that the resident filter is applied daily and therefore a different one every day
outcome (resident or not). In addition, it can be seen in, for example, the Tuesday in week 23 that
if there are registrations between 5 and 7 a.m. but not between 10 p.m. and midnight, the resident filter does not
is activated (after all, there are dashes in this day). The AP does not consider it inconceivable, given the
nightly registrations, that the above pattern belongs to a resident.

 

Figure 7: Second Visualization of Clipped Pseudonymized MAC Address

 

The third visualization below shows a truncated pseudonymised MAC address that is on Tuesday through
with Friday every day between about 8:00 AM to 11:00 AM is signaled by many of the sensors in the
city center of Enschede. It shows a regular movement pattern across multiple sensors. It
pattern could be, for example, of a parcel deliverer.

 

 

48/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

Figure 8: Third Visualization of Clipped Pseudonymized MAC Address

The fourth visualization below shows a truncated pseudonymised MAC address on Tuesday through
with Saturday between 04:00 and 05:00 at night by some of the sensors in the city center of
Enschede has been received. Perhaps this concerns a person who likes to take a walk at night.
 

Figure 9: Fourth Visualization of Clipped Pseudonymized MAC Address

 

 

49/58

 

 



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
Based on the foregoing, the AP concludes that from the long-term table after January 1, 2019
clear living patterns can be distilled. Given the regularity of the patterns, it is reasonable to
conclude that the records associated with the pattern belong to one mobile device.117
 
1.3 Duration of processing and number of data subjects
The AP has established above that at least since May 25, 2018, in the city center of Enschede
data from mobile devices with Wi-Fi enabled are collected and processed. the AP
has determined that in the period from December 10, 2018 to January 3, 2019, the sensors
have stood, so no new data were collected during this period.118 However, previously collected
data has been stored in the long-term table during this period, so there were
period data is processed.

 

Until the end of the investigation (April 21, 2020), the AP had several indications that the
WiFi measurements are still being performed. This is how the website of the municipality of Enschede stated
that Wi-Fi measurements were carried out in the city center119 and the website also reported
www.binnenstadsmonitorenschede.nl still weekly about the number of unique visitors in the
inner city of Enschede.120 In addition, the AP is neither of the Municipal Executive of Enschede nor of
Bureau RMC received a message during the investigation that the WiFi measurements have been stopped. During the day
the enforcement procedure of the AP, the Municipal Executive of Enschede has stated in its view that it is
college has discontinued the WiFi counts. The B&W Enschede college has asked the Bureau on April 30, 2020
RMC commissioned data to switch off the sensors as of May 1, 2020. The sensors do not supply
counting data more from 1 May 2020.121 The AP therefore determines that the duration of the processing is the period
from May 25, 2018 to April 30, 2020.

 

The exact number of people involved of whom in the period from May 25, 2018 to April 2020, via his or her mobile phone
device data processed cannot be determined because [CONFIDENTIAL] and Bureau
RMC's data will not be kept for longer than between six and seven months. On the basis of the
Long-term table provided by [CONFIDENTIAL] to the AP with data for the June 1 period
2019 to December 6, 2019, an estimate can be made of the number of mobile devices
of data subjects of whom data was processed in the period from May 25, 2018 to April 4, 2020.122

 

The graph below shows the number of unique truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses in the 27 weeks
in the period from June 1, 2019 to December 6, 2019. Any clipped pseudonymized
MAC-address therefore appears once in the graph, namely in the week in which it is for the first time
detected by a sensor in the city center of Enschede.

                                                                        
117 Registrations outside of this pattern may come from other mobile devices.
118 See also appendix 1, paragraph 2.5.
119 https://www.enschede.nl/bestuur/privacy/wifi-tellingen-binnenstad (last visited on 26 February 2020).
120 https://www.binnenstadsmonitorenschede.nl/visitors-week figures (last visited on 26 February 2020).
121 Letter of 16 February 2021 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP, page 3 and appendix 2.
122 The unique number of truncated pseudonymised MAC addresses is used as an estimator for the number of unique
Mobile Devices.

 

 

50/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
 

Figure 10: Weekly number of detections from June 1 to December 6, 2019

 

The graph shows that there are many new detected mobile devices in the first weeks. In the weeks
after that, the number of new detections levels off. In the last week it was about 16,000 mobile
devices. In total, during this 27-week period, there was data from 671,701 unique mobile phones
devices in the long-term table.

 

If previous figures for the period June 1 - December 6, 2019 are applied to the period of 25
May 2018 to April 4, 2020, leading to an estimate of roughly 1.8 million unique mobile devices
of which data has been processed via the sensors in Enschede since 25 May 2018. It is assumed here that
the first 27 weeks after May 25, 2018 will be the same as the graph above. It has also been assumed that after
the 27 weeks until April 4, 2020 the number of new detections is 16,000 weekly.123 This number holds
does not take into account the fact that for residents and persons who work in the city center of
Enschede and those who have enabled Wi-Fi on their mobile device, they do not have to do this once, but (a lot)
more often detected by the sensors.

 

On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that the B&W Enschede Board will in any case be from May 25th
2018 to date processed data from roughly 1.8 million unique mobile devices and that
the number of detections will be significantly higher.
 

 

                                                                        
123 From May 25, 2018 to April 4, 2020, 31 weeks in 2018, 52 weeks in 2019 and 14 weeks in 2020. The calculation is therefore as follows:
671,701 (for the first 27 weeks from May 25, 2018) + ((31-27)+52+14) x 16,000 = 1,791,701.

 

 

51/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
2. Facts about the concept of controller
 
2.1 Decision to start Wi-Fi measurements
The decision to collect data about visitors to the city center of Enschede via sensors
(hereinafter also: carrying out WiFi measurements) was taken by the Municipal Executive of Enschede. This follows from the
Board decision, the first page of which is shown below.124

 
Figure 11: First page of the board decision, dated September 5, 2017, start of WiFi measurements.

                                                                        
124 Board decision of September 5, 2017, appendix to e-mail of September 23, 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document
62).

 

 

52/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
It follows from this page that the B&W Enschede Board approved the proposal on September 5, 2017.
of the alderman to switch from 1 yearly manual counts to . as of September 6, 2017
24/7 WiFi measurements.

  

After the decision of 5 September 2017, the Municipal Executive of Enschede, the municipal council of
Enschede informed by letter.125 In addition, there is also a press release on the municipality's website
as a number of Q&As about the WiFi measurements.126 In this communication it is stated that City
Traffic B.V. would carry out the WiFi measurements.

 

City Traffic B.V. was at the time a company owned by Bureau RMC and [CONFIDENTIAL]. on
This company was dissolved on 24 May 2018.127 Since then, Bureau RMC has been commissioned by the Commission to
B&W Enschede carries out the WiFi measurements, whereby Bureau RMC purchases certain services from
[CONFIDENTIAL]. Bureau RMC now uses the term 'City Traffic' for its service to use WiFi measurements
to count unique visitors in cities, among others.128

 

The director of Bureau RMC informed the
stated the following: “City Traffic has been in existence since 2010 and has positioned itself as an alternative to Locatus
to do passenger counts. Locatus was the party that did hand counts once a year. I then founded CityTraffic
to generate more dynamic data. Both Locatus and CityTraffic have been asked by the Municipality of Enschede to
propose to do wifi counts there. (…) The reason for the request from the municipality was the fact that through
wanted to roll out a certain subsidy free WiFi network with NDIX129 and then the RMC agency was asked whether we
network to count passers-by. Part of the competition was also that we had to make a correlation
show between counts of NDIX. It was later decided not to use the NDIX counts.” 130
The offer submitted by Bureau RMC confirms that the B&W Enschede Commission had requested
connection to the network of NDIX.131
 
To questions from the AP about the influence of the municipality on the location of the sensors, the director of
Bureau RMC replied: “The locations of the sensors for the NDIX network had already been determined. The municipality
Enschede then indicated which areas/streets it missed and therefore where sensors should be placed. The

                                                                        
125 Letter of 5 September 2017 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the municipal council, annex 3 to the letter of 24 May 2019 from the
college B&W Enschede at the AP (file document 26).
126 Press release of 6 Sept 2017 about measuring crowds with sensors and Q&A further information 24/7 counts in the city centre, appendix 4 and
5 to the letter of 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 26).
127 Extract Chamber of Commerce City Traffic B.V. of 9 August 2019 (file document 81).
128 Page 10 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 (file documents
49 and 55). See also www.citytraffic.nl (document 54).
129 NDIX B.V. is an organization based in Enschede that works on managing and further developing a digital marketplace and
making maximum bandwidth available to companies to stimulate innovation. See www.ndix.net.
130 Page 10 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents
49 and 55).
131 Page 2 of the quotation Monitoring Visitor flows Inner City Enschede from Bureau RMC, annex 1 to letter dated 24 May 2019 from the
college B&W Enschede at the AP (file document 26).

 

 

53/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
The municipality has therefore determined the locations of the sensors. (…) the municipality had the coordinating role in the awarding of contracts. In front of
As for the number of sensors, I would have preferred many more. 132
 
On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that the Municipal Executive of Enschede has taken the initiative and the
has taken the final decision to start with 24/7 measurements via sensors in . on September 6, 2017.
the city center of Enschede. The B&W Enschede college has sent two companies a quote for this
bring out. The contract has been awarded to City Traffic B.V., currently Bureau RMC. Finally, the AP notes that
the Municipal Executive of Enschede had a guiding role in the number and locations of the sensors.
 
2.2 Purpose of the WiFi measurements for the Municipal Executive of Enschede
In the municipal decision of September 5, 2017, the Municipal Executive of Enschede has set the purpose of the WiFi measurements
formulated as follows in the city center: “We would like to know how this location is developing: how many passers-by
do people walk through the streets, how many visitors does the city center have, how long do people stay in the city center and where do they walk
by? To get a better picture of this, we will switch from 1-yearly manual counts to . from September 6th
24/7 counts via sensors.”133
 
Since December 2017, the Q&A on the website of the municipality of Enschede has stated the following about the goal
of the WiFi measurements: “The municipality of Enschede invests a lot in the city center and wants to be able to measure the effects of this.
We do this via the passer-by counts via sensors that give us daily insight into the number of visitors and the number of visitors
visitor flows in the city center. This gives us a picture of the attractiveness of our city centre, of the
influence of spatial changes in the city center and of the effects of, for example, events,
promotional campaigns and shopping times. The counts via sensors are also interesting for entrepreneurs who are established or
who want to settle in the city center and for investors.”134

 

After the WiFi measurements had started, the complainant submitted a complaint to the Enschede B&W Board.135 In
In response to the complaint, the Municipal Executive of Enschede writes in a letter to the complainant:
“- There is a clear goal (we invest a lot in the city center and want to measure its effects);
- The basis for the counts is “legitimate interest” (responsible handling of public funds);” 136
 
On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that the Wi-Fi measurements are carried out with the aim of
measuring the effects of investments by the municipality of Enschede in the city center with a view to a
responsible handling of public funds. The Municipal Executive of Enschede considers the WiFi measurements to be lawful
because, in its view, they take place on the basis of the 'legitimate interest' basis.

 

                                                                        
132 Page 11 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on May 29, 2019 and email of May 19
August 2019 from Bureau RMC to the AP (file documents 49 and 55).
133 See Figure 1 in this report.
134 Q&A amended in December 2017, appendix 6 to the letter of 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 26). A
text with a similar meaning was available on the municipality's website from the municipal executive decision of September 5, 2017.
135 Letter of 10 November 2017 from the complainant to the municipality of Enschede, appendix to the letter of 16 July 2018 from the complainant to the AP (document 1).
136 Letter of 21 December 2017 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the complainant, annex to letter of 16 July 2018 from the complainant to the AP
(file item 1).

 

 

54/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

2.3 Processor agreement between B&W Enschede and Bureau RMC
On September 26, 2017, the B&W Enschede Board and the predecessor of Bureau RMC specifically
with regard to the processing of personal data in the context of the WiFi measurements in the
inner city of Enschede, a processor agreement as referred to in Article 14 of the then applicable Act
protection of personal data (hereinafter: Wbp) closed.137

 

The preamble names the two parties between whom the agreement has been concluded: “The Municipality of Enschede, further
to be called the responsible person, legally represented by: [CONFIDENTIAL] and City Traffic,
established in Amsterdam, hereinafter referred to as the processor, validly represented for this purpose by
[CONFIDENTIAL], declare that they have agreed (…)”

 

The first, third and fifth paragraph of article 4 of the processor agreement provides the following about the
rights and obligations of the two parties:

“1. The College of Mayor and Aldermen of the Municipality of Enschede is responsible within the meaning of the
Wbp.
3. The processor processes data on behalf of the controller in accordance with his instructions.
5. When processing personal data in the context of the activities referred to in Article 3, the processor will:
act in accordance with applicable laws and regulations regarding the protection of
personal data. The processor only processes personal data on behalf of the Strategy and Policy Department and
will follow all reasonable instructions in this regard, unless otherwise required by law.
6. The processor will at all times at the first request of the responsible party immediately provide all of the Municipal
Personal data originating from Enschede with regard to this processor agreement to the responsible party
shake hands.”

 
Article 7, on the involvement of third parties, states:

“1. The processor is only entitled to outsource the execution of the work in whole or in part to third parties
with the prior written consent of the responsible person.
2. We agree that the processor will have the data processed by [CONFIDENTIAL]. Editor has with this
party has entered into a processing agreement.
(…)”

 
On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that the B&W Enschede Commission itself as
controller considers within the meaning of the Wbp (currently the AVG) for the execution of
wifi measurements. In addition, the AP notes that City Traffic B.V., now Bureau RMC, uses personal data
processed on behalf of the Municipal Executive of Enschede, must follow its instructions and at the request of
the Municipal Executive of Enschede must submit the personal data. Finally, it follows from the foregoing that
the Municipal Executive of Enschede has agreed that Bureau RMC has hired [CONFIDENTIAL]
for processing the personal data.
 

                                                                        
137 Processor agreement for monitoring visitor flows in the city center of Enschede dated September 26, 2017, annex 2 to letter dated October 29
2018 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 6).

 

 

55/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

2.4 The services provided by [CONFIDENTIAL] to Bureau RMC
Bureau RMC rents for the installation and maintenance of the sensors in the city center of Enschede
[CONFIDENTIAL]. This is apparent from the following statements by the director of Bureau RMC:
“RMC buys a subscription from [CONFIDENTIAL] for the sensors and that includes everything: the hardware, software,
firmware, installation, service, maintenance, etc. This is arranged in a service level agreement between RMC and
[CONFIDENTIAL]. The physical management of the sensors lies with [CONFIDENTIAL]. Subsequently, the municipality
Enschede subscribe to RMC for these sensors.”138
And, when asked who calibrates the sensor during installation: “The installer of the sensor, so someone from
[CONFIDENTIAL].”139

 

The aforementioned service level agreement has been submitted to the AP by the director of Bureau RMC.
The service level agreement dated October 31, 2016 confirms that [CONFIDENTIAL] the installation and
maintenance of the sensors for Bureau RMC.140

 

The service level agreement also shows that Bureau RMC hires [CONFIDENTIAL] for the
collecting data with the sensors and validating that data.141 This is confirmed by
the fact that, during the investigation, [CONFIDENTIAL] employees generally
have answered detailed questions from the AP about the collection and processing of the data142 and the
required documentation. It also follows from the invoice submitted that [CONFIDENTIAL]
pays for the rented server space at Amazon AWS.143

 

Article 7 of the service level agreement contains the following information about the data collected with the sensors:
agreement entered into between [CONFIDENTIAL] (the 'contractor') and Bureau RMC (the 'customer'):
The Contractor is in no way entitled to process data from the customer in any way for a purpose
other than primarily applicable to the customer. (…) The customer can at any time demand the data as well as the
oblige the contractor to delete data.”

 

On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that Bureau RMC hires [CONFIDENTIAL] for the
installation and maintenance of the sensors in the city center of Enschede and for the collection and
validate the data collected with the sensors. The AP also notes that Bureau RMC
on the basis of the service level agreement at any time the data that [CONFIDENTIAL] collects
and processed can claim.
 

                                                                        
138 Page 1 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
139 Page 8 of report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49
and 55).
140 Article 1 of the Service Level Agreement [CONFIDENTIAL]-Bureau RMC, appendix 1 part 4 to the Report of Official Acts
on-site investigation at Bureau RMC on May 29, 2019 (document 39).
141 The introduction to the Service Level Agreement [CONFIDENTIAL]-Bureau RMC (document 39).
142 Report of statement of Bureau RMC and employees [CONFIDENTIAL] made on 29 May 2019 (file documents 49 and 55).
143 Invoice Aws June 2019, received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on 29 July 2019 (file document 50).

 

 

56/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

 

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

2.5 Decision to pause Wi-Fi measurements and switch to 'anonymize on the server'
On November 30, 2018, the AP released a news item stating that under
the GDPR, companies are only allowed to follow people with WiFi tracking in very exceptional cases.144 In response
[CONFIDENTIAL] within the municipality of Enschede, sent an e-mail to the director
from Bureau RMC with the following questions:145
“Hai Huib, I called after the message below. Questions to you:

- How do you interpret this statement?
- Do the measurements of CT (ed: City Traffic) fall below this?
- If so, is anonymization perhaps still an option?
- (…)”
 

Following the news item from the AP, the B&W Enschede board contacted
Bureau RMC and instructed her to pause the WiFi measurements. This follows from the
Municipal Executive of Enschede sent a letter of 6 December 2018 to the city council:
“(…) the Dutch Data Protection Authority (AP) [has] published an article about WiFi tracking. (…) In the context of
Due to due care, we have chosen to instruct City Traffic to pause the WiFi counts for the time being. In
In the meantime, we are in talks with City Traffic to resolve this in light of the publication.”146
 
On December 14, 2018, [CONFIDENTIAL] sent the following email to the Director of Bureau RMC
sent: “We are working on a letter to the council that the counts can be picked up again from January 1, 2019
because from that moment on, counting is anonymized. (…) Can you confirm to us by email that you actually
counting anonymously as of January 1, 2019?”147
The director of Bureau RMC replied on December 16, 2018: “(…) We can hereby confirm that we
from January 1, 2019 in addition to pseudonymization on the sensor, will anonymize on the server. (…)”
 
As proof of the actual implementation of this 'anonymization on the server', [CONFIDENTIAL] has issued a
screenshot of the change in the server software code submitted to regulators of the
AP.148 It follows that at the end of December 2018 the 'anonymization on the server' was implemented, at least
dat [CONFIDENTIAL] of the pseudonymised MAC address (without the colons) will be
cut off. Appendix 1, pages 38 through 40, describes clipping in more detail.

 

 

On December 18, 2018, the municipal council was informed by letter B&W Enschede by letter
of the fact that the WiFi measurements would be resumed.149 This letter states:
                                                                        
144 www.autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl/nl/nieuws/bedrijven-mogen-mensen-only-bij-hoge-exception-with-wifitracking-follow.
145 Email dated 3 December 2018 from [CONFIDENTIAL] to [CONFIDENTIAL] from Bureau RMC, annex 7 to the letter dated 24 May 2019 from
the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 26).
146 Letter of 6 December 2018 to the Enschede Council to pause WiFi counts, annex 8 to the letter of 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive
Enschede to the AP (file document 26).
147 E-mail of 16 December 2018 from RMC anonymize confirmation, annex 10 to the letter of 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive
Enschede to the AP (file document 26).
148 Page 3 of source code, clipping and filters.pdf, attachment 2 of documents received from [CONFIDENTIAL] on June 20, 2019
(file item 46).
149 Letter of 18 December 2018 to the Council for restarting WiFi counts, annex 11 to the letter of 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to
the AP (file document 26).

 

 

57/58



 

Date
March 11, 2021

Our reference
[CONFIDENTIAL]

 
“Until recently, City Traffic worked with pseudonymization of data on the sensor (MAC address that is encrypted on the
sensor). This is seen by the AP as personal data and must therefore comply with the General Regulations
Data Protection (GDPR). (…) With anonymized data, there is no question of personal data. In that case, the
General Data Protection Regulation not applicable. This is confirmed in the publication of the AP of 30
November last in the further explanation of the standards. (…) We can inform you that City Traffic has confirmed to us that they
Switch to anonymous counting from 1 January 2019. In this way we maintain the privacy of visitors to our website
safeguard the inner city. From January 1, 2019, the sensors will be reactivated and we will be able to resume monthly
report on the counts.”
 
It follows from the information from the Municipal Executive of Enschede that Bureau RMC for the period from December 10th
2018 up to and including 3 January 2019 has not reported any figures to the Municipal Executive of Enschede.150

 

On the basis of the foregoing, the AP concludes that the Municipal Executive of Enschede, as a result of the
publication of the AP of November 30, 2018 Bureau RMC has commissioned the WiFi measurements in the
city center of Enschede and that over the period from December 10, 2018 to January 3 inclusive
2019 no figures have been reported to the B&W Enschede board by Bureau RMC. the AP
concludes on this basis that the sensors in the city center of Enschede were deactivated in the period mentioned
have stood. The AP also notes that Bureau RMC (at the request of the Municipal Executive of Enschede)
has introduced the so-called 'anonymisation on the server' as of 1 January 2019, whereby the last three
characters of the pseudonymised MAC addresses are truncated.
 

                                                                        
150 shareperingang.xls in folder 20190212, appendix 14 to a letter dated 24 May 2019 from the Municipal Executive of Enschede to the AP (file document 26).

 

 

58/58

