  Friday, August 28, 2020 2: Press releases Contact data collection: Risks also with apps and web servers The Schleswig-Holstein Corona Control Ordinance obliges u. Restaurateurs and event organizers to record the contact details of their guests. However, this data must not fall into the wrong hands. The Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein (ULD) has repeatedly pointed out problems: Collections by list, flying pieces of paper, in individual cases even misuse of the data. Are technical solutions better? For Marit Hansen, the state representative for data protection in Schleswig-Holstein, this is not a matter of course: “The guests can see how this is handled on the contact forms. Restaurateurs and organizers can actively ensure that the paper data is stored in such a way that it is not accessible to unauthorized persons. With daily shredding after the four-week retention period, only small snippets remain - the data is then gone. With technical offers, on the other hand, you usually have to rely on service providers. Unfortunately, data leaks from the contact data servers of such offers have occurred several times. This does not only affect a single restaurant, but often all stored data can be called up in such cases. This data shows who ate where and when – and who was also there at the same time.” Hansen is convinced that not only professional groups such as lawyers or journalists should ensure that the people they are talking to do not end up in Corona contact databases, where undesired retrievals may occur. “In principle, it affects us all: It is nobody's business where and when we eat or participate in events. That is why it is so important to store the data securely, which may only be recorded during the pandemic and only for the purpose of contact tracing in the event of infection. For data protection and data security of IT offers, the operator must always stay on the ball: botch is not acceptable, diligence and quality are always associated with costs points out: “Not everyone has a smartphone and can report their data via app or web browser. For restaurateurs and organizers, this means that a solution without information technology must be available anyway.” Hansen is open to the development of data protection-friendly technology that could collect contact data in a much more data-saving manner – for example with pseudonymous digital availability addresses that are only used once and do not include the name and postal address. “That would solve some data security issues. But it is still a long way off and has not yet been approved in this form in the current Corona regulations.” Nowadays, the health authorities need the name and address for their task of contact tracing. On its website, the ULD provides information on recording contact data on paper and in electronic form. The most frequently asked questions to the ULD about contact details
(see § 4 para. 2 Corona Control Ordinance, status: August 24th, 2020): Which contact details are requested on the respective date? Name, address and, if available, telephone number or e-mail address. How long is the data kept? Four weeks. After that, they must be destroyed, e.g. B. shredded. May the data be used for other purposes? No! The contact details may not be used for any other purpose (e.g. advertising). When does a restaurateur or organizer have to release the data? Only if the health department (the competent authority) requests the data. This can happen when it comes to tracing infection routes and informing people who may have been infected. What else does an organizer or operator have to think about? Above all, data security: When storing and handling the data, it must be ensured that unauthorized persons cannot access it. What if data protection is not respected? Then you can complain. The ULD investigates every complaint. The information from the State Commissioner for Data Protection on topics related to the corona pandemic is provided under the following link and updated regularly: https://www.datenschutzzentrum.de/corona/ If you have any questions, please contact: The State Commissioner for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein
Independent State Center for Data Protection Schleswig-Holstein Holstenstraße 98, 24103 Kiel Tel: 0431 988-1200, Fax: -1223 E-Mail: mail@datenschutzzentrum.de Tags for this article: Corona, news, press releasesArticles with similar topics: E-prescription Procedure: protect machine-readable codes! Property tax reform 2022 - Responsibility of the BfDI No loopholes in communication with authorities and for foundations with public tasks - Further develop the right to freedom of information Announcement - "Save the date!": Summer academy "Freedom of information by design - and data protection?!" on September 12, 2022 in Kiel Data protection and social work in schools – practical knowledge in the new ULD brochure