1/8

Procedure No.: PS/00321/2020

 RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: Ms. A.A.A. (hereinafter, the claimant) on 04/06/2020 filed
claim before the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The claim is
directed against CONSORCIO LÓPEZ DE AYALA with NIF V06206379 (hereinafter, the
reclaimed). The reasons on which the claim is based are in summary: that the
04/06/2020, at 13:45 received an email from the Administration of the
López de Ayala Theater Consortium, in which it is informed that by the current Decree by
which is in force the State of Alarm declared in the country, proceeded to the
cancellation of an event for which he had purchased seats. The mail is
sent to a plurality of affected whose electronic addresses, as well as the
mine, appear visible for having avoided the use of the CCO when carrying out the
electronic communication and unprotecting the privacy to which I am entitled,
since personally, I don't want my email address to be
consulted, used or disseminated by third parties to whom I have not provided it in
first person.
SECOND: Upon receipt of the claim, the Subdirectorate General for
Data Inspection proceeded to carry out the following actions:
On 06/03/2020, the claim submitted was transferred to the defendant for analysis
and communication to the affected party of the decision adopted in this regard. Likewise, it
required so that within a month it would send to the Agency determined
information:

- Copy of the communications, of the adopted decision that has been sent to the
claimant regarding the transfer of this claim, and proof that
the claimant has received communication of that decision.
- Report on the causes that have motivated the incidence that has originated the
claim.
- Report on the measures adopted to prevent the occurrence of
similar incidents.
- Any other that you consider relevant.

After the indicated period, the respondent has not responded to the request.
done.
THIRD: On 09/17/2020, in accordance with article 65 of the LOPDGDD, the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection agreed to admit for processing the
claim filed by the claimant against the respondent.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/8

FOURTH: On 10/23/2020, the Director of the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the defendant, for the alleged
infringements of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 of the RGPD, sanctioned in accordance with the
provided in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the aforementioned RGPD.
FIFTH: Once the initiation agreement was notified, the claimant on 11/04/2020 submitted
brief of allegations stating in summary the following: that on 04/14/2020 he received
email of the claimant indicating that the email sent on 04/06/2020 was
made to a plurality of clients without making use of blind copies; that was answered
to the claimant that same day requesting an apology, indicating that everything was due to
a punctual error; that the respondent has not been aware of the requirement of
information referred to by the AEPD in its start-up agreement; the letter sent is provided
to the claimant about the decision adopted regarding the transfer of the claim,
and accreditation that the claimant has received the same and decisions adopted to
prevent similar incidents from occurring.
SIXTH: On 11/10/2020, a period of practice tests began,
remembering the following

- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes the claim filed by the
claimant and his documentation, the documents obtained and generated by the
Inspection Services that are part of file E/03747/2020.
- Consider reproduced for evidentiary purposes, the allegations to the agreement of
beginning PS/00321/2020 presented by the claimed party and the documentation that
they accompany.

SEVENTH: On 11/19/2020, a Resolution Proposal was issued in the sense that
by the Director, the person claimed for infraction of articles 5.1.f) and 32.1 will be sanctioned
of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD, with a warning.
After the term legally indicated at the time of this Resolution, the
Respondent had not submitted a pleadings brief.
EIGHTH: Of the actions carried out in this proceeding, they have been
accredited the following:

PROVEN FACTS

FIRST: On 04/06/2020, the claimant submitted a letter to the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection, noting that on 04/06/2020 he received an email from the
claimed in which he is informed that due to the Decree by which he is
In force the State of Alarm declared in the country, proceeded to the cancellation of a
event for which he had purchased some seats; that the e-mail sent is sent to
a plurality of affected parties whose electronic addresses, like yours,
appear visible for having avoided the use of the hidden copy when making the
electronic communication.

SECOND: A screenshot of the email in question is provided,
sent from the address ***EMAIL.1, on Monday 04/06/2020, at 1:45 p.m., without a copy
hidden, to a plurality of email addresses among which is the
address owned by the claimant, for the reason stated in the proven fact
first.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/8

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

Yo

II

In the first place, article 5 of the RGPD establishes the principles that must be
govern the processing of personal data and mentions among them that of "integrity and
confidentiality”.

The cited article states that:
"1. The personal data will be:
(…)
f) treated in such a way as to ensure adequate security of the
personal data, including protection against unauthorized processing or
against its loss, destruction or accidental damage, through the application
of appropriate technical or organizational measures ("integrity and
confidentiality”)”.
(…)
Article 5, Duty of confidentiality, of the new Organic Law 3/2018, of 5
December, Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of digital rights
(hereinafter LOPDGDD), states that:

"1. Those responsible and in charge of data processing as well as all
people who intervene in any phase of this will be subject to the duty of
confidentiality referred to in article 5.1.f) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

2. The general obligation indicated in the previous section will be complementary

of the duties of professional secrecy in accordance with its applicable regulations.

3. The obligations established in the previous sections will remain
even when the relationship of the obligor with the person in charge or person in charge had ended
of the treatment”.

III

Second, article 32 of the RGPD “Security of treatment”,

establishes that:

"1. Taking into account the state of the art, the application costs, and the
nature, scope, context and purposes of the treatment, as well as risks of
variable probability and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals
physical, the person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will apply technical measures and
appropriate organizational measures to guarantee a level of security appropriate to the risk,
which in your case includes, among others:

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/8

a) pseudonymization and encryption of personal data;
b) the ability to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and
permanent resilience of treatment systems and services;
c) the ability to restore availability and access to data
quickly in the event of a physical or technical incident;
d) a process of regular verification, evaluation and evaluation of the effectiveness
technical and organizational measures to guarantee the security of the
treatment.
2. When evaluating the adequacy of the security level, particular consideration shall be given to
taking into account the risks presented by the processing of data, in particular as
consequence of the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss or alteration of data
data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed, or the communication or
unauthorized access to said data.

3. Adherence to an approved code of conduct under article 40 or to a
certification mechanism approved under article 42 may serve as an element
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements established in section 1 of the
present article.

4. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will take measures to
guarantee that any person acting under the authority of the controller or the
manager and has access to personal data can only process said data
following the instructions of the person in charge, unless it is obliged to do so by virtue of the
Law of the Union or of the Member States”.

IV

The facts proven in the procedure show the disclosure of the
email addresses when an email is sent to the claimant
without hidden copy with violation of the technical and organizational measures and
violating the confidentiality of the data.

In the present case, the defendant is charged with the infraction of article 5.1.f) and

32.1 of the RGPD, typified in articles 83.5.a) and 83.4.a) of the RGPD.

As has been credited through the screenshot of the email
email provided by the claimant sent from the address ***EMAIL.1, on Monday
04/06/2020 at 13:45, without blind copy, to a plurality of email addresses
among which is the address owned by the claimant and through the
which it was reported that due to the Decree by which the
State of Alarm declared in the country, an event was canceled
for which he had acquired some locations, supposes the violation of the regulations
regarding the protection of personal data.

However, in order to clarify the terms of the claim
presented and that has led to the opening of this sanctioning procedure, the
claimed by letter of 11/04/2020 has not only provided information on the
incidence produced indicating that on 04/14/2020 they received an email
sent by the claimant indicating that the email sent by the
administration of the claimed to a plurality of clients had been carried out without
activate the blind copy which had allowed the addresses to be displayed
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/8

mail of those affected; that the same day the respondent proceeded to answer the
mail received from the claimant requesting her apologies and indicating that everything was
had been due to a punctual, extraneous and exceptional error in the way of proceeding of the
entity. It also attached a copy of the communication addressed to the claimant at
Despite the fact that no request had been received from the AEPD in this regard,
the causes that had motivated the incidence produced.

At the same time and in order to prevent similar incidents from occurring, the
Users will send the recipient to the corporate email of the claimant and in a copy
hides the final recipients, when there are two or more recipients.
making sure before sending your correct annotation.

That all the workers of all the departments of the claimed have
received prior to the claim and after it, training to the
respect to prevent events like the one that occurred.

That prior to the date of the claim, the respondent has
implemented in your organization appropriate procedures for action in the collection
and processing of personal data, the incident being a consequence of
punctual and involuntary error in the operation of said procedures.

That he has not committed any infraction on this matter neither before nor after

at the date of the claim.

v

The violation of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD is typified in article 85.5.a)

of the aforementioned Regulation.

Article 83.5 a) considers that the infringement of “the basic principles for the
treatment, including the conditions for consent under articles 5,
6, 7 and 9” is punishable, in accordance with section 5 of the aforementioned article 83 of the
cited RGPD, “with administrative fines of €20,000,000 maximum or, in the case of
of a company, of an amount equivalent to a maximum of 4% of the volume of
Total annual global business of the previous financial year, opting for the one with the highest
amount”.

On the other hand, the LOPDGDD, for prescription purposes, in its article 72 indicates

that:

“Infringements considered very serious:

1. Based on the provisions of article 83.5 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 are considered very serious and the infractions that
suppose a substantial violation of the articles mentioned in that and, in
particularly the following:

a) The processing of personal data violating the principles and guarantees
established in article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(…)”

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

SAW

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/8

The violation of article 32 of the RGPD is typified in the article

83.4.a) of the RGPD in the following terms:

"4. Violations of the following provisions will be sanctioned, in accordance
with paragraph 2, with administrative fines of a maximum of EUR 10,000,000 or,
in the case of a company, an amount equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the
global total annual turnover of the previous financial year, opting for
the largest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge pursuant to articles 8,
11, 25 to 39, 42 and 43.
(…)”

For its part, the LOPDGDD in its article 71, Violations, states that:

“The acts and behaviors referred to in the regulations constitute infractions.
sections 4, 5 and 6 of article 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as those that
are contrary to this organic law.

And in its article 73, for the purposes of prescription, it qualifies as "Infringements

considered serious”:

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
are considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the
following:

(…)
g) The violation, as a consequence of the lack of due diligence,
of the technical and organizational measures that have been implemented in accordance
to what is required by article 32.1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679”.
(…)”

However, article 58.2 of the REPD provides the following:

7th

"two. Each supervisory authority will have all of the following powers

corrections listed below:

(…)
b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

(…)”

Therefore, the RGPD, without prejudice to the provisions of its article 83, contemplates
in its article 58.2.b) the possibility of going to the warning to correct the
processing of personal data that do not meet your expectations.
      
In the case that concerns us, as indicated previously, it has been
accredited the disclosure of email addresses when referred to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/8

claimant an email without a blind copy with violation of the measures
security and violating the confidentiality of the data.

In accordance with the evidence available to said conduct
constitutes by the claimed the violation of the provisions of articles 5.1.f)
and 32.1 of the GDPR.

However, the respondent has indicated that although he had implemented
measures prior to the claimed incidence and that everything had gone to a
punctual and involuntary error, in order to avoid similar incidents have been adopted
measures so that the emails destined for the final recipients are
sent by means of a hidden copy, making sure before sending that they are correct
annotation and execution; that the workers, although they had received training in
matter of data protection prior to the claim, subsequently
has reinforced them to prevent events such as the one that occurred, so in the
In this case, it is not appropriate to urge the adoption of additional measures.

In addition, it must also be taken into account that there is no recidivism, for
not record the commission, within a year of more than one infraction of the same
nature.

 

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation,

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CONSORCIO LÓPEZ DE AYALA, with NIF V06206379, for
an infringement of article 32 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.4.a) of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

SECOND: IMPOSE CONSORCIO LÓPEZ DE AYALA, with NIF V06206379, for
an infringement of article 5.1.f) of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5.a) of the RGPD,
a warning sanction.

THIRD: NOTIFY this resolution to CONSORCIO LÓPEZ DE AYALA.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the
LPACAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration
before the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of
month from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

8/8

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the
LPACAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings
if the interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious appeal-
administrative. If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this
made by writing to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection,
introducing him to
the agency
[https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-web/], or through any of the other
records provided for in art. 16.4 of the aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. Also
must transfer to the Agency the documentation that proves the effective filing
of the contentious-administrative appeal. If the Agency were not aware of the
filing of the contentious-administrative appeal within two months from the
day following the notification of this resolution, it would end the
precautionary suspension.

  Electronic Registration of

through the

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

