Press release: My data! – Securely on the go
 
 01/28/2020
 
 
 
 
 press release
 
 
Media Competence Working Group updates leaflets for parents, teachers and primary school children Saarbrücken, January 28, 2020: On the occasion of today's European Data Protection Day, the Media Competence Working Group is publishing the updated version of its series of leaflets My Data! Children and young people today use mobile media as a matter of course and are - mostly with the Smartphone – always and everywhere online. They prefer to call up videos or pictures, send them, write messages or post articles and clips. In doing so, they leave traces and (unintentionally) reveal a lot of personal data. Data protection on the Internet is and will remain an important topic! With the three folders Meine Daten! The media competence working group in Saarland sensitizes elementary school children, parents and teachers to the critical and conscious handling of their own data and the data of others. They provide target group-oriented tips on how to handle personal data securely. They tell you what to look out for when publishing personal information on the Internet, give tips on basic rules that must be observed at all costs, and provide information about contact points and (teaching) materials that deal with the subject of data protection. The leaflets My Data ! are available for download free of charge on the Internet at www.medienkompetenz.saarland.de, at www.mkz.LMSaar.de or at www.datenschutz.saarland.de. The AG Media Competence is an association of Saarland players in the field of media competence. Since 2008, she has been exchanging views across the country on the latest developments in the media sector and educates parents, students, teachers and pedagogical specialists about the opportunities, possibilities and risks that digital media offer young people today. Permanent members: Saarland State Media Authority, State Institute for Preventive Action, Saarland Ministry of Education and Culture, Saarland Independent Data Protection Center, Saarland State Police Headquarters, State Institute for Education and Media, Saarland youth server
 return
 
 Associated files
 
 Press release for download
 
 385KB
 