
Activity report
of the Saxon
Data Protection Officer
Reporting period:
January 1 to December 31, 2021


Activity report
of the Saxon
Data Protection Officer
2021
Reporting period:
January 1 to December 31, 2021

Legal status: December 31, 2021

Machine Translated by Google

Data protection is protection of freedom
Andreas Schurig, Saxony's top data protection
officer until the end of 2021, and Dr. Juliane Hundert, now Saxon
Data protection officers, talk in an interview about
the tasks and challenges, the power of tech companies
and the joy of a good book.

4|

Machine Translated by Google

Mr. Schurig, you have now resigned as Saxon Data Protection
Officer. Is there any advice you would like to pass on to your
successor?
Schurig: No, because every generation faces its own tasks and
challenges, and I am convinced that Dr. Hundred will master theirs well.
Already
before my first term as Saxon Data Protection Officer

I worked as a commissioner in the authority. I still remember my early
days in 1993. At that time there was no internet connection. Compared
to today, electronic data processing was in its infancy.

Miss Dr. Hundred with what feelings you have your
new office?
dr Hundred: With a good one! I know Mr. Schurig and
most of the employees do
longing. He significantly shaped data protection in Saxony. I have great
respect and appreciation for his achievement; not only as the new head
of the authority, but first and foremost as a citizen. Together with my coworkers
I would like to do this work
now continue. And I look forward to new challenges

ments.

What is data protection for you personally?

dr Hundred: I am a child of the GDR. I still have from her
noticed so much that I know what it's like when the

State penetrates deeply into private life and systematically
spying on the population. For me, data protection is therefore
primarily a right of defense against the state. Nevertheless we live

|5

Machine Translated by Google

today at a time when the threat to our freedom is also coming from a
different direction. By that I mean the tech companies that have made
spying on their customers their business model. My dealer around the
corner would have been my business partner for the longest time if

he me after a visit to his shop on mine
the following way to other shops so that he can offer me better products
next time
fit my needs. But that's exactly what we're allowing on the Internet - and
many people don't realize that it is
so is. Data protection is also about clear rules among private individuals.
With the General Data Protection Regulation and national law, the EU
and the Federal Republic of Germany have created regulations that are
intended to enable us to protect our freedom and privacy, also vis-à-vis
companies. The citizens can count on my support.

Schurig: That is an aspect that I can only emphasize.
There is a manageable number of tech companies that have become
incredibly powerful. They can hardly be regulated. Of course we still
have to try that
put these corporations in their place. They too must
adhere to the rules of the game, which are essentially laid down in the
General Data Protection Regulation. However, it is much more important
that we – those responsible and users – handle our data or the data
entrusted to us with care. We have to keep reminding ourselves:

Data protection is protection of freedom!

Miss Dr. One hundred, as of January 1, 2022, you are the one
Saxon data protection officer and are now presenting their first
annual report in accordance with the General Data Protection
Regulation. However, it documents the work of your predecessor.
Surely that wasn't an easy task, was it?

dr Hundred: First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Schurig for the excellent
transfer of office. This enabled me to familiarize myself quickly. Some
oversight operations included in

6|

Machine Translated by Google

can be read in this activity report, have me be
already during my time as a parliamentary adviser
and legal advisor to the Bündnis 90/Die Grünen parliamentary group in
the Saxon state parliament. These include, among other things, data
protection issues in connection with the pandemic measures. The real
challenge was rather to identify the important events that I had not
previously known about, but which are just as interesting and helpful for
data protection officers and the public.

Mr. Schurig, how was data protection in 2021?
Saxony ordered?
Schurig: It was the second year of the pandemic. That demanded a lot
from data protectors everywhere. Because sometimes the data protectionfriendly solutions are associated with some effort. I am thinking, for
example, of the correct handling of health data; i.e. when entering contact
data or when the employer requests vaccinations, recovery and tests.
Here, however, data protection has once again proven that it does not
stand in the way of containing the pandemic, but rather ensures
transparency and thus broad acceptance of the measures. The Corona
Warn app is a prime example of this. Of course, data protection had to
be used again in 2021 to distract from our own failures and a lack of
regulation, for example in the billing scandals in Corona test centers.

That those responsible prefer to blame the
looking for others never seems to go out of fashion. the co
rona measures were only one topic, with
which I dealt with in the reporting period. Also at
I contributed to the Register Modernization Act, we also dealt with the
implementation of the Schrems II judgment, cookies and tracking on the
Internet and much more.

Miss Dr. Hundred, there is obviously no lack of topics,
or how do you rate that?
dr Hundred: (laughs) No, definitely not. The Transparency Act will soon
be added, according to the Saxon

|7

Machine Translated by Google

cal state parliament decides. The course was set for this
in the reporting period. Then, like almost all federal states,
Saxony also has a law that regulates the information
freedom rules. The draft stipulates that my authority has
to investigate possible complaints. If citizens are of the
opinion that the state is withholding information from
them that it must provide under the Transparency Act,
those affected can in future
I hope to contact my authority.

Do new challenges also need new ones?
structures?
Schurig: I think that reinforcements are needed, especially
in terms of personnel. Data protection problems have
increased with digitization. New tasks are already on the
horizon, such as checking systems that use artificial
intelligence.
This must also be reflected in the official equipment

8|

Machine Translated by Google

hit. With more staff, the authority could also check compliance with data
protection better, for example with unannounced checks. That was only
possible to a very limited extent in 2021.

dr Hundred: With the eight new posts that land us
tag made available last year, however, we are taking a big step forward.
But you are right: the increase in tasks that the supervisory authorities
have had to deal with with the introduction of the General Data Protection
Regulation is enormous. Just the vote

with the other regulators requires a lot more
time than before. And it is good that you, Mr. Schurig, have also made
an effort to further develop the data protection conference. Under the
leadership of Saxony, the DSK 2.0 working group prepared a number of
important specifications last year. In essence, it is about the harmonization
of data protection supervision in Germany.

The innovations include, for example, a weekly video conference at
management level, in which the DSK members coordinate on current
topics. I will do my best to promote cooperation within the

Develop data protection conference.

Mr. Schurig, how will you use your free time now?
Schurig: How am I going to spend my time? This is subject to data
protection! (laughs) More time for the family and a good book more often
– I'm really looking forward to that.
dr Hundred: I wish you a lot of joy and hope
fe that you remain committed to data protection - and that I can call you
again and again if I have any questions (laughs).
All the best!

|9

Machine Translated by Google

Table of contents

S. 14

List of Figures

S. 15

List of abbreviations

S. 18

subject register

S. 23

Preliminary note on the use of language

S. 24 1

Data protection in the Free State of Saxony

S. 24 1.1

Processing of health data of employees in the corona pandemic Easier data

S. 41 1.2

transfer within city administrations under the GDPR?

S. 43 1.3

Creation of the dynamic teaching aid database Saxony

S. 47 2

Principles of data processing Data

S. 47 2.1

processing principles, definitions Logbook edition for a

S. 47 2.1.1

company - data minimization p. 48 2.1.2 Artificial intelligence in

schools: Area9 Rhapsode Legality requirements of data processing
S. 50 2.2
P. 50 2.2.1 Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter e GDPR in connection with a
Responsibility regulation no legal basis for public bodies P. 52 2.2.2 E-mail
notice in the staff room P. 53 2.2.3 Data transmission of a mobile phone number by the dealer

to a shipping service provider

P. 56 2.2.4 Video surveillance to analyze the driving behavior of e-scooters P. 60 2.2.5
Limits of video surveillance of private properties P. 62 2.2.6 Strange and strange things
about videography P. 64 2.2.7 Provision of billing documents within a homeowners
association

p. 69 2.2.8 Core area of private life also protected in the visa procedure p. 72 2.2.9 Use of account
details for future procedures by
the state judiciary

10 |

Machine Translated by Google

P. 75 2.2.10 Vaccination advertising by the Ministry of Social
Affairs P. 75 2.2.11 Information from archived population register data
S. 76 2.3

Questions of consent

P. 76 2.3.1 Data protection in offender-victim mediation P. 81
2.3.2 Internet publication of competition results in youth golf
S. 85 2.4

Sensitive data, special categories of personal data

p. 85 2.4.1 Corona at school
p. 87 2.4.2 Biometric access control in leisure facilities p. 91 2.4.3 Engagement of
an external expert by a social services authority p. 92 2.4.4 Measles Protection
Act: abnormalities in certificates

p. 94 2.4.5 Use of police officers for home quarantine checks
P. 95 2.4.6 Transmission of personal data by rescue control centers to
the police for law enforcement purposes

S. 97 3

data subject rights

S. 97 3.1

Specific Obligations of the Controller

S. 97 3.1.1

Data protection information for citizens' requests

S. 98 3.1.2

Information requirements for video surveillance:
Purpose and Legitimate Interests

S. 101 3.1.3

Operation of a customer center by a contractor of the controller

p. 103 3.1.4 Processor as recipient according to Article 13 GDPR
S. 104 3.2

right of providing information

p. 104 3.2.1 Information according to Article 15 GDPR by the bailiff
p. 107 3.2.2 Admissibility of data deletion when returning a defective hard disk and right to information p.
111 3.2.3 Free copies of examination papers

S. 115 4

Obligations of controllers and processors

S. 115 4.1

Responsibility for processing, technical design

P. 115 4.1.1 Simplified test scheme for the use of additional services
on websites/apps according to GDPR, TTDSG and Schrems II
p. 121 4.1.2 Electronic class register
p. 122 4.1.3 Notifications from bailiffs only in sealed envelopes p. 123 4.1.4 Forwarding of an email to
a city council by the mayor p. 124 4.1.5 Collaboration on a successor solution for the video conferencing
service

| 11

Machine Translated by Google

S. 126 4.2

order processing

p. 126 4.2.1 Processing of personal data when investigating operations
by “independent” expert commissions
p. 130 4.2.2 Use of chatbots by public bodies

p. 132 4.2.3 Use of the Corona-Warn-App (CWA) by public authorities
S. 133 4.2.4 Videodolmetschen
S. 134 4.3

security of processing

p. 134 4.3.1 Use of LernSax
S. 134 4.4

Breach reporting p. 134 4.4.1 Increase in

reported data breaches Data Protection Officer
S. 140 4.5
P. 140 4.5.1 Data Protection Officer as Information Security Officer

S. 141 5

International traffic

S. 141 5.1

New Standard Contractual Clauses

S. 142 6

Saxon data protection officer

S. 142 6.1

Jurisdiction and Requirements for Complaints

S. 142 6.1.1

Model projects according to the Saxon Corona Protection Ordinance

p. 146 6.1.2 Data processing by a youth welfare office as part of a family court
procedure
p. 147 6.1.3 Violation of the imprint obligation p. 148 6.1.4
Private enforcement of rights and damages in the event of data protection violations
S. 163 6.2

Figures and data on the activities in 2021 p.

163 6.2.1 Overview of the main areas of work
p. 164 6.2.2 Complaints and reports

p. 165 6.2.3 Consultations p.
166 6.2.4 Data breaches p. 166 6.2.5
Cooperation with European supervisory authorities –
Internal Market Information System p.
168 6.2.6 Register of designated data protection officers p. 168 6.2.7
Formal monitoring of legislative projects
p. 169 6.2.8 Resources
S. 172 6.3

Data protection supervisory powers, administrative decisions p. 172
6.3.1 Exercise of the right to refuse information p. 176 6.3.2 Penalty

payment in the event of a refusal to provide information

S. 177 6.4

12 |

Fines and sanctions, criminal charges

Machine Translated by Google

p. 177 6.4.1 Administrative offense proceedings in the public sector p. 180 6.4.2
Administrative offense proceedings in the non-public sector p. 184 6.4.3 Sanctioning of socalled employee excesses Public relations
S. 186 6.5
S. 186 6.5.1

Press work and online communication

p. 187 6.5.2 Training courses and lectures

S. 189 7

cooperation of the data protection supervisory authorities,
Data Protection Conference

S. 189 7.1

Data Protection Conference Materials – Resolutions

S. 189 7.2

Data Protection Conference Materials - Resolutions

S. 190 7.3

Data Protection Conference Materials – Guidance

S. 190 7.4

Materials of the data protection conference – statements

S. 191 7.5

Data Protection Conference Materials – Application Notes

S. 191 7.6

European Data Protection Board documents:

S. 193 7.7

Joint review of media companies by

Guidelines, recommendations, best practices

data protection supervisory authorities

S. 195 8

Policy area - Directive (EU) 2016/680 - and other areas

S. 195 8.1

Tasks of the GKDZ according to § 4 GKDZ-StV

S. 199 8.2

Using a facial recognition program for law enforcement

by the Dresden Police Department

S. 209 9

Jurisdiction on data protection

S. 209 9.1

Compensation for every breach of the GDPR?

S. 210 9.2

BAG on the right to information – right to a copy of data
according to Art. 15 Para. 3 GDPR

S. 211 9.3

BGH: content and scope of the right to information

S. 212 9.4

Statutory retention requirements and the right to erasure

| 13

Machine Translated by Google

List of Figures

P. 135 Figure 1: Reports of data protection violations P. 163
Figure 2: Main areas of work according to number of cases P. 164
Figure 3: Complaints and information P. 165 Figure 4 : Consultations
P. 169 Figure 5: Volume of documents P. 170 Figure 6: Growth in
important areas of activity p. 172 Figure 7: Simplified organization
chart of the authority

P. 178 Table 1: Administrative offense proceedings in the public sector.
P. 181 Table 2: Administrative offense proceedings in the non-public sector

14 |

Machine Translated by Google

List of abbreviations
Below are laws and other regulations

listed in alphabetical order of the official abbreviation, in
exceptional cases also non-official abbreviation,
alternatively the official abbreviation.

regulations
TO THE

tax code

Residence G

Residence Act

BarchG

Federal Archives Act

BDSG
Civil Code

Federal Data Protection Act
Civil Code

BMG

Federal Registration Act

BZRG

Federal Central Register Act

CoronaSchutzV

Coronavirus Protection Ordinance

GDPR

General Data Protection Regulation

eKFV

Small Electric Vehicles Ordinance

GG

Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany

GKDZ-StV

State treaty on the establishment of a common
Competence and service center of the police forces of the
states of Berlin, Brandenburg, Saxony and Saxony
Anhalt and Thuringia on the territory of the police
Telecommunications surveillance as a legal entity
public law

GMO

bailiff regulations

GVGA

Business instructions for bailiffs

IfSG

German Infection Protection Act

IfSGZuVO

Infection Protection Act - Competence Ordinance

JI-RL

Directive (EU) 2016/680 (Justice and Home Affairs)

ArtUrhG

Law on copyright in works of

OWiG

Administrative Offenses Act

SaxonArchiveG

Archive law for the Free State of Saxony

fine arts and photography

| 15

Machine Translated by Google

SächsBRKG

Saxon law on fire protection, rescue services and civil protection

SächsCoronaNotVO

Saxon Corona Emergency Ordinance

SächsCoronaSchVO

Saxon Corona Protection Ordinance

SächsDSG

Saxon Data Protection Act

SaxonDSDG

Saxon Data Protection Implementation Act

SächsGemO

Saxon Municipal Code

Saxon ME

Saxon Lawyer Training Act

Saxon JAPO

Saxon legal training and examination regulations

SächsISichG

Saxon Information Security Act

SächsPet AG

Saxon Petitions Committee Act

Saxon PVDG

Saxon Police Enforcement Service Act

SächsStVollzG

Saxon prison law

SächsVwKG

Saxon Administrative Costs Act

SaxonVwOrgG

Saxon Administrative Organization Act

SächsVwVG

Administrative Enforcement Act for the Free State of Saxony

SchulKitaCoVO

School and Kita Corona Ordinance

SGB

social code

StPO

Code of Criminal Procedure

StVZO

Road Traffic Licensing Regulations

TestV

Coronavirus Testing Regulation

TTDSG

Telecommunication Telemedia Data Protection Act

UWG

Unfair Competition Law

AWAY

Homeownership Act

WEMoG

Condominium Modernization Act

ZPO

Code of Civil Procedure

Miscellaneous
Abs.

Unit volume

Art.

Article

The.

File number

BAG

Federal Labor Court

BASt

Federal Highway Research Institute

BGH

Federal Court of Justice

BR-Drs.

Federal Council printed matter

BSI

Federal Office for Security in Information Technology

BT-Drs.

Bundestag printed matter

16 |

Machine Translated by Google

letter

Letter

BVerfG

Federal Constitutional Court

BVerwG

Federal Administrative Court

DSK

Conference of independent data protection officers

Federal and state data protection conference
ECtHR

European Court of Human Rights

eKF

micro electric vehicle

EU

European Union

GKDZ

Joint competence and service center
Police forces of the states of Berlin, Brandenburg, Saxony, SaxonyAnhalt and Thuringia in the area of the police
Telecom Surveillance

K. d. ö. R.

Public corporation

LaSuB

State Office for Schools and Education

LDS

State Directorate of Saxony

LG

district Court

LJK

State Justice Fund

LJP
MY STOMACH

State Judicial Examination Office

Mercator Forum Migration and Democracy

OLG

Higher Regional Court

OVG

Higher Administrative Court

item no.

marginal number

SMI

Saxon State Ministry of the Interior

SMK

Saxon State Ministry for Culture

SMS

Saxon State Ministry for Social Affairs and Society

St.A

Public prosecutor

social cohesion

SVN

Saxon administration network

TOA

Offenders victim Compensation

Wow

administrative regulation

| 17

Machine Translated by Google

subject register
with "* "

only public area

without »* « non-public area or
public and non-public area

General Data Protection Regulation
(EU) 2016/679

reference

archiving*

2.2.11

order processing

see 3.1.3, 3.1.4, 4.2.1, 4.2.2,
4.2.3, 4.2.4, 5.1

Beliehene*

Employee data protection

1.1, 4.2.1, 9.2

(including employment law*, staff representatives*, works councils,
other representatives and agents); see also videography,
employees
Company data protection officer see data
protection officer
data subject rights
(Information, information, deletion etc.)

cf. 2.2.3, cf. 2.2.11, cf. also
3.1.1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, cf. 3.2.1,
3.2.2, 3.2.3, cf. 6.1.4, 9.2, 9.3 ,
9.4

Education and science •
Universities, research institutes

2.2.4

• Schools, school boards*, educational institutions

1.3, 2.1.2, 2.2.2, 2.4.1, 4.3.1

• Miscellaneous, general

18 |

Machine Translated by Google

Corona, SARS-CoV-2, pandemic measures

1.1, 2.2.10, 2.4.1, 2.4.5,

and associated data processing

4.2.3, 6.1.1

Data Protection Officer

4.5.1, 6.2.6

Data Protection Impact Assessment

1.1

Dashcam, drones,
see videography
E-Government*
consent

1.1, 2.3.1, 2.4.2, 3.2.2, see
4.1.1

liberal professions

see also health care if applicable
• Lawyers

• Note
• Tax consultants, auditors
• Architects, engineers •
Miscellaneous, general
Jointly Responsible

court administration*

2.2.9, 2.3.1

Bailiff*

3.2.1, 4.1.3

healthcare
• Official supervision and monitoring*
• Hospitals

• Nursing Services

• Pharmacists
• Doctors
• Health Professions

• Miscellaneous, general

2.4.4, 2.4.6

| 19

Machine Translated by Google

Trade, services, trade, industry • Credit agencies,
debt collection service providers, detective agencies
• Banks, finance
• Trade, see also internet/e-commerce
• Craft, trade, industry

3.1.3

• Hotel and gastronomy, leisure, tourism, sports • Insurance;

2.3.2, 2.4.2

see if necessary social affairs, service providers

9.3

• Advertising, market and opinion research
• Miscellaneous, general

3.2.2

Infrastructural Sector
• Energy, water and utility industry • Traffic and
transportation • Housing industry, real estate management
2.2.7

• Data centers
• Miscellaneous, general
Internet, media, communication
• E-mail, telecommunications processes, mail

see 4.4.1

• E-Commerce

2.2.3

• Social Media, Telemedien

2.3.2, 4.1.1, see 6.1.3,

• Miscellaneous, general

1.3, 4.1.5, 4.2.3, 7.7

Chambers, professional bodies d. ö.R.*
Data breach notification, Article 33

4.4.1

Administrative offenses - Saxon Data Protection Commissioner.

6.3.1, 6.4

religious communities
Saxon data protection officer

20 |

6

Machine Translated by Google

Saxon state parliament as administration*
Saxon Court of Auditors*
School, see Education and Science
Sensitive data, Article 9

2.4.2, 4.2.2, see 9.1

For security of processing, see

5.1

also technical and organizational measures, if applicable
social affairs
• social authorities*

2.4.3, 6.1.2

• Day care centers
• Service providers •
Miscellaneous, general

2.4.4

Statistics*

2.2.10

For technical and organizational measures, see

see 5.1

security of processing, if applicable, see list of processing
activities, if applicable
Clubs (also parties), associations, foundations

see 2.3.2

transportation

2.1.1, 2.2.4

Administration*
• General, basic • Specialist

2.2.1

administration* (e.g. building

1.2, 2.2.8

administration, immigration authorities)
• Financial, tax and subsidy management*
(incl. municipal offices)
• Municipal self-government* • Registration

2.2.11, 4.1.4, 6.3.2

authorities* (including the right to register,

2.2.11

civil status)

| 21

Machine Translated by Google

Videography and image processing •
Official monitoring/processing* • Employees, cf.
otherwise
employee data processing
• Dash cam, drones

6.4.2

• Trade, business
• Residential areas
• Miscellaneous, general

2.2.4, 2.2.5, 2.2.6, 2.4.2,
3.1.2

right to vote*

see 3.1.1

Certification, accreditations, seals of approval

see 6.2.8

Directive (EU) 2016/680
Police*

see 2.4.5 and 2.4.6, 6.4.1

Administrative offense authorities*

see 2.1.1 and 6.1.3

Prosecution*

see 2.4.6, 8.1, 8.2

Criminal and judicial system*

Company data protection officer see data
protection officer

Other areas
(outside Regulation 2016/679 and Directive EU 2016/680)
Saxon state parliament as parliament

defense of Constitution
Other data processing bodies

22 |

Machine Translated by Google

Preliminary note on the use of language
In this activity report, the generic masculine is used
below to indicate the flow of reading
and to facilitate understanding. Of course
however, all genders are meant. For reasons of grammatical
correctness and correct use of the present participle,
substitute forms are used
such as users or users waived.

| 23

Machine Translated by Google

1 Data protection in the Free State of Saxony

1.1 Processing of
employee health data
during the corona pandemic
ÿ § 26 BDSG; Art. 7, 9 GDPR; Saxon CoronaSchVO

In the past reporting period, my authority had to deal
with the measures to combat the pandemic and the
associated data protection issues to a considerable
extent, which also affected employee data protection.
The various problems are presented below in a
chronological order.
As part of the corona pandemic, the Saxon Ordinance

Infection protection measures are regulated by the
Saxon Corona Protection Ordinance (SächsCoronaSchVO),
which also had and continue to have an impact on the
employment relationship. These regulations led to a wide
range of questions in the area of labor law and data
protection and regularly moved between the poles of
effective protection against infection.
At the federal level, too, the legislator has attempted to
regulate the labor and data protection issues arising
from the measures to protect against infection, such as
the employer’s right to ask questions about the
vaccination status of employees, by amending the
Infection Protection Act several times.

24 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

Corona-Tests
Newly developed options for containing the corona pandemic, such as
antigen self-tests, allowed employers to offer them to their employees as
early as the beginning of 2021. This resulted in a number of labor and
data protection issues.

My authority was therefore already in January 2021 with the
Request for advice from an international company, which also has
branches in Saxony, on the data protection-compliant implementation of
corona tests
employees including the associated data
processing, in particular of test results,
confronted. Since this company has more branches
genes in other federal states and thus the responsibility of other German
supervisory authorities was given, a response from the responsible
supervisory authorities was sent via the employee data protection working
group to the
company coordinated.
In my opinion, this set the first standards with regard to data protection
requirements
Processing of employee health data
As part of the corona pandemic, especially in Be
regarding the processing of corona test results, the relevant legal basis
on which such processing of health data can be based at all, and with
regard to technical and organizational measures to be implemented by
the person responsible.

Among other things, the requesting company was informed that the
processing of personal data in the context of carrying out the corona selftests is not based on Section 26 (3) sentence 1 of the Federal Data
Protection Act (BDSG), Art.
9 Para. 2 Letter b General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) can be
supported. According to these regulations, employees' health data can be
processed if the processing is for the purposes of the employment
relationship, to exercise rights or to fulfill legal obligations under labor law,
the law

of social security and social protection

Activity Report 2021

| 25

Machine Translated by Google

is and there is no reason to believe that the protection
worthy interest of the data subject in the exclusion of processing prevails.

For what purposes may the test
and health data are processed?
However, there were already considerable doubts as to whether the
coronavirus self-test for infection
health data collected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2
data should be processed for the purposes of the employment
relationship or for the purpose of combating a pandemic by preventing
infection. Also from the point of view that testing employees could serve
employers’ duty of care towards their employees and thus also serve
the purposes of the employment relationship, employers may only
process an employee’s health data pursuant to Section 26 (3) BDSG in
order to fulfill their duty of care towards the employee employees
affected by the data processing themselves. The fulfillment of legal
obligations towards third parties does not entitle the employee affected
by the processing of his or her personal data to be processed.

Duty of care as a processing purpose?
The general labor law duty of care pursuant to Sections 611a, 242 (2)
of the German Civil Code (BGB) also did not oblige the employer to
have the workforce tested for Covid-19 and thus to process the
employee data required for this, including health data. Another argument
against such a general obligation on the part of the employer was that
the legislature had only recognized a test obligation for employees in
very few cases by means of special regulations. Even the ordinance on
the entitlement to testing in relation to direct detection of the pathogen
of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus (coronavirus test ordinance - TestV) of
November 30, 2020 "only" regulated a claim

26 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

certain groups of people to be tested under the conditions specified in
Sections 2 to 4 of the TestV, but not one that is independent of the
exercise of this right
Obligation of the relevant institution to carry out tests
respectively. In January 2021 there were only a few rights

regulations that established a real obligation to conduct tests. The
character of these – very few – statutory regulations as special
standards, which provide for a test obligation, would be undermined if
an obligation to carry out tests on employees were derived from the
general labor law duty of care of the employer that goes beyond the
special statutory standardized groups of employees.

Those responsible were also informed that such an
obligation could not be derived from Section 3 (1) of the
Occupational Safety and Health Act. No specific legal
obligation can be derived from the general requirements
of occupational health protection mentioned. Rather, the
assumption of a legal obligation on the part of the
employer would run counter to the above-mentioned
legislative decision to only provide for a test obligation in

the explicitly regulated cases. There was therefore no
corresponding obligation on the part of the company and no right e
to demand that such tests be tolerated; However, this would be
a prerequisite for the application of Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter b GDPR,
Section 26 Para. 3 Sentence 1 BDSG.
Public interest in the public domain
health as purpose?
A controller cited Art. 9 (2) (i) GDPR, Section 22 (1) No.

1 letter c, paragraph 2 BDSG (public interest in the field of public
health). However, the task of health care does not justify a general
authority of companies to process health data.

The regulations refer to their wording and their development

development history on the public health

Activity Report 2021

| 27

Machine Translated by Google

wesen and health administration, insofar as it is carried out by public
and non-public bodies. This also results in particular from the reference
to compliance with professional and criminal law requirements for
maintaining professional secrecy. In addition, such processing of health
data for reasons of public interest must not result in third parties under

another employer to process such personal data for other purposes;
Recital 54 GDPR.
However, since the company “only” wanted to test its own employees
and third-party employees who work for the company, this was not the
case
public interests in the field of public health
health, but the productivity of the individual business premises should
be maintained by avoiding major infections.

Consent as the legal basis for processing
The company was therefore informed that, according to the data
protection supervisory authorities involved, only Art. 9 (2) (a) GDPR,
Section 26 (2) in conjunction with (3) sentence 2 BDSG could be
considered for the notified data processing, i.e. the consent of the
employees.
Data processing in the employment relationship, which is based on
consent, must always be examined extremely critically due to the
existing relationship of dependency. Above all, the criterion of the
voluntary nature of consent is mostly not met. In particular, pressure
from the employer, which could influence the employee’s free decision,
disadvantages, direct or in a direct way, which the employees could
suffer if they decide not to carry out the tests, lead to doubts about the
voluntary nature of the test and ultimately to it ineffectiveness of the
consent.

The person responsible was also informed that the employees must be
comprehensively informed about all essential aspects of data processing,
such as storage duration, in order to be able to

28 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

validity of the consent within the meaning of Art. 4 No. 11 GDPR

ensure.
voluntary consent
The company announced that it is planning for this project
To use self-tests carried out in the laboratory of a subsidiary

should be evaluated by the company and this in turn
would communicate the test results to the respective
company branches. For this reason, the company was
informed that the consent also includes the transmission
of a possible positive test result to the employer and
therefore also to be transparently informed as to which
officials of the employer this transmission would take
place. In this regard, it would only be assumed that the
consent was voluntary if the employer did not receive any
feedback on the negative test results or which employee
accepted the test offer or not. Otherwise, employees
would have to fear that if they did not take advantage of
the test offer, they might suffer some indirect
disadvantages. Such fears must be avoided, however,
because this is the only way to dispel doubts about the
voluntariness of consent given the imbalance between
employer and employee

become.

The person responsible was also informed that according
to Art. 7 Para. 3 Sentence 1 GDPR, the employees must
be informed that their consent can be revoked at any
time and that in the event of a revocation the personal
data may not be processed further.
Technical-organizational measures, establishment
of a "trust center"
Due to the dependencies existing in the employment
relationship and any associated effects (such as
termination), which result from the
processing of health data can result

Activity Report 2021

| 29

Machine Translated by Google

to place special requirements on data protection-compliant data
processing. Also with regard to the fact that the employer or the personnel
administration, in deviation from legal regulations and the right to ask
questions under labor law, gain knowledge about the specific health
conditions of employees, technical and organizational measures for
compensation are in return

to perform.
The responsible company was therefore informed that it was responsible
for the notified data processing within its
Personnel administration has to form an informationally isolated trust
point where the information
receive positive tests. This organizational unit must be described
transparently with regard to data processing and staffing and must be
managed according to Art.
37 GDPR designated data protection officer

become.
The number of trust center employees and their access to the test
health information received
ments must be minimized to the required level.
The health data collected must be processed independently of the
processing of other employee data. This means that this health data
may not be processed in the personnel file or in any other way. When it
is passed on to functional units for personnel deployment planning, the
person responsible must therefore develop a procedure in which the
identities of employees who have tested positive cannot be revealed to
shift supervisors, supervisors, etc.

test obligation

After at the beginning of the year employees were only tested for the
presence of an infection with SARS-CoV-2 in special facilities, such as
nursing homes, the Saxon legislator stipulated in the SächsCoronaSchVO
of March 5, 2021 that all employees ten and self-employed with direct
customer contact from 15.

March 2021 once a week a test for the Corona virus

30 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

rus SARS-CoV-2 have to carry out or are obliged to
to have this done.
From March 22, 2021, employers were obliged to offer their employees
who are present at their workplace the opportunity to carry out a free selftest at least once a week

wide.
My authority received a large number of inquiries about this as well

gen, which mostly included the question of whether this regulation entitles
the employer to record the test results.
I was able to inform those affected that the employer is not authorized to
process the positive or negative test result. Rather, this regulation only
obliges the employer to provide evidence that he offered his employees
the test.

Compulsory testing for people returning from vacation

With effect from July 26, 2021, the Saxon legislator then introduced a
test requirement for so-called “holiday returnees”. According to this,
employees who have not worked for at least five consecutive working
days due to vacation and comparable official or work exemption had to
submit a daily updated test to the employer on the first working day after
this work interruption or carry out a documented supervised test during
the course of the first working day.

If the work started in the home office, this obligation applied for the first
day on which the work takes place in the company or at other locations
outside of one's own home. The granting of inspection of the test or
vaccination certificates together with an official identity document in the
original should be sufficient for the documentation.

More information:

For this I have stated on my website that

ÿ sdb.de/tb2101

From a data protection point of view, the control of the test evidence
se by submission by the employees without them
Tests or controls with a personal reference are documented, are the
mildest means and accordingly

Activity Report 2021

| 31

Machine Translated by Google

processing of this data is not permitted. Instead, employers can only
document that they have a process in place to carry out such controls.
The mere documentation of a corresponding control process seemed
sufficient in this respect, since Section 9 (1a) of the SächsCoronaSchVO
of July 14, 2021 only regulated an obligation for employees to submit,
but no specifications with regard to an obligation on the part of the
employer to provide more extensive documentation and the associated
processing of personal data dates met.

If employees were fully vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2 or had
recovered from a SARS-CoV 2 infection, Section 9 (7) of the
SächsCoronaSchVO in the version of July 14, 2021 stipulated that these
employees were not obliged to Submission of test evidence exists,
insofar as these prove that they have a full

are constantly vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2 or have recovered from
a SARS-CoV-2 infection.
This could also be taken into account in a corresponding control system.
However, the documentation of the vaccination or recovery status was
also subject to data protection law
From our point of view, not according to § 9 paragraph 1 a and paragraph 7 of the SächsCorona

SchVO of July 14, 2021, in particular the vaccination or proof of recovery
may not be copied.
Question from the employer about the
vaccination or convalescence status
After the vaccines against Covid-19 were no longer given as a priority
in the summer of 2021, but were available to large parts of the
population, and it was feared that the number of infections could rise
again in late summer and early autumn, the question increasingly arose
as to whether employers have the right to ask their employees about
their vaccination or recovery status. Until then, a legal regulation for
processing the vaccination and serostatus only existed for employees
of certain facilities, such as hospitals, according to § 23 a in conjunction
with § 23 In-

32 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

infection protection law. For all other areas, the general labor and data
protection regulations applied, which in practice often led to legal
uncertainties as to whether there was a right to ask questions or not. In
particular, it was discussed whether the vaccination status could be
queried with the consent of the employee.

Already on March 29, 2021, the conference of the independent
The data protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state
governments (DSK) published a resolution in view of these expected
DSK resolution : ÿ
sdb.de/tb2102

legal uncertainties, which called on the legislator to create corresponding
clear legal regulations.

Processing of vaccination status on a consent basis
My authority then also received a request from an airline that wanted to
clarify whether they were allowed to process the vaccination status of
their pilots as part of a consent. The airline informed me that health
authorities in other countries would not recognize the pilots' vaccination
certificates (including international ones), but would insist on confirmation
from the employer regarding the vaccination status. In some cases –
according to the airline – entry regulations have been further tightened,
so that pilots who have previously stayed in certain countries

countries were only allowed to enter if they were vaccinated and had a
PCR test carried out, or if they were not vaccinated, a three-week
quarantine would be ordered. Due to these circumstances, the person
responsible now wanted to process the vaccination status of the pilots as
part of a consent in order to avoid quarantine and longer waiting times for
the pilots in the airport area.

I first informed the responsible body that the data on the vaccination
status was health
data within the meaning of Art. 4 No. 15 GDPR and thus special
re categories of personal data within the meaning of Art. 9 Para. 1
DSGVO. The processing of special categories of personal data is
generally prohibited under Art. 9 Para. 1 GDPR if the data specified in
Art. 9 Para. 2 and 3

Activity Report 2021

| 33

Machine Translated by Google

GDPR are not relevant. The access of the employer to the
health data of the employees is only possible to a very
limited extent for reasons of privacy protection. In principle,
there is no right to knowledge of health data. For example,
the certificates of incapacity for work for the employer may
not contain any diagnoses, cf. § 69 para.
4 SGB X.

Incidentally, there was no vaccination requirement in
Germany at that time. Section 23a of the Infection Protection
Act (IfSG) only provides for the processing of vaccination
data by the employer for special reasons of pandemic
control (for facilities according to Section 23 (3) IfSG, such
as hospitals). This express legislative value decision to
affirm and regulate a right to ask questions only in individual
cases also makes it clear that a general authorization to
process the information on the “vaccination status” is not to
be assumed.
In this case, too, the only legal basis for the notified data
processing was consent in accordance with Art.
9 paragraph 2 letter a GDPR, § 26 paragraph 2 in connection with paragraph

3 sentence 2 BDSG, since neither the SächsCoronaSchVO
other legal provisions, apart from professional groups
expressly named by law (cf. § 23 a, § 23 para. 3 IfSG),
provide for a processing authority and the associated
documentation obligation of the employer with regard to
the vaccination status. Accordingly, my authority has
informed the responsible body that if the information on the
"vaccination status" is processed by the employer on the
basis of express consent in accordance with Article 9 (2)
(a) GDPR, the specific requirements for the effectiveness
of the consent would have to be observed in the employment
relationship, in particular with regard to the voluntary nature
(Art. 4 No. 11 GDPR). Furthermore, the requirements
according to Art. 7 GDPR and § 26 Para. 2 BDSG have to
be fulfilled. Despite the high requirements that are to be
made of the consent and in particular the criterion of
voluntariness in the employment relationship, this is

34 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

not excluded in the employment relationship.
Pursuant to Section 26, Paragraph 2, Clause 2 of the
Federal Data Protection Act, voluntary work can be the
case, in particular, if a legal or economic advantage is
achieved for employees or if employers and employees
are pursuing the same interests. In my opinion, in the
case presented to me, the processing of the vaccination
status by the employer on the basis of consent to avoid
having to “perform” an officially ordered quarantine or
longer stays in the airport building was equally
advantageous for both the employer and the pilot.
According to the descriptions of the facts presented to
me, this was not only advantageous for the employer,

especially with regard to his economic interests in
preventing quarantine-related absences. It was also advantageous
Arranging quarantine or long-term stays in the airport
building, which would reduce their rest periods,
to avoid.
The data protection-compliant query of the vaccination
status by the employer, based on consent, was therefore
an absolute exception. In addition to the high requirements
that are placed on consent that is effective under data
protection law, the legal basis for consent for the employer
is also a variant associated with considerable risks due to
the possibility of revocation of consent at any time. Priority
should therefore be given to examining whether other
legal bases could be considered.
I have also informed the responsible body of the
additional requirements for data protection-compliant
consent, which were already published in the 2019
Activity report 2019: ÿ

activity report. In this case, too, I have informed that the

sdb.de/tb2103

responsible office within their company has to set up an
informationally isolated trust center – which is separated
from the personnel administration office – to which
information on the vaccination status is received. The
health data collected must be independent of the
processing of other employee data. It would therefore
have to be ensured that the

Activity Report 2021

| 35

Machine Translated by Google

sonally managing body does not receive any knowledge/information
as to who has given his vaccination status to the informationally
Schotten trust agency has revealed and who does not and

of course not about the actual vaccination status. That meant further
that these health

do not process the data in the personnel file or in any other way
may be tested. In particular, this data must not
be disclosed to superiors etc.
I have informed the responsible body that
this processing of employee health data requires a data protection
impact assessment in accordance with Art. 35 GDPR and the processing
of this health data is included in the list of processing activities in
accordance with Art.
30 GDPR should be included. It was recommended to reach a
corresponding agreement with the works council, which also has
normative effect and which takes into account the data protection
requirements described above (cf. Section 26 (4) BDSG).

§ 36 paragraph 3 Infection Protection Act
With Section 36 (3) IfSG, on September 10, 2021, the federal legislature
regulated for certain facilities, such as schools and day-care centers,
that in the event of an epidemic situation of national significance
determined by the German Bundestag, the employer - insofar as this is
to prevent of the spread of COVID-19 is required – may process personal
data of an employee about his vaccination and serostatus in relation to
the coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19), about the establishment of
an employment relationship or about the nature of an employment to
decide.

For all other employees, for whom the legal exemptions of Sections
23a, 23 and 36 (3) IfSG do not apply, the general labor and data
protection regulations remained.

36 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

2G-Optionsmodell
Therefore, with the inclusion of a 2G option model in the Saxon
Corona Protection Ordinance of September 21, 2021, the
question arose again for many employers as to whether they
should be allowed to inquire about the vaccination and
More information:

serostatus of their employees. My authority has a comprehensive position

ÿ sdb.de/tb2104

taken.
In certain areas, the so-called 2G option model made offers
exclusively for vaccinated and recovered people in which there
is no obligation to wear a face mask, no obligation to comply
with the distance requirement, and no restrictions on the
utilization of the maximum capacity. The prerequisite for the 2G
optional model was that all those present had proof of vaccination
or a proof of recovery. In accordance with Section 6 a (1)
sentence 2 SächsCoronaSchVO of September 21, 2021, this
did not apply to employees who have proof of a test and who
wear medical mouth and nose protection for the duration of the
event or the offer. If an employer wanted to introduce the 2G
option model, the question arose in practice as to whether the
employer should disclose the vaccination and recovery status
or the result of a test for the absence of an infection with SARSCoV-2 from their employees employees may request.

My authority is of the opinion that the introduction of the 2G
option model for his company does not regularly entitle the
employer to process the vaccination or recovered status of the
individual employee. Rather, it requires a clear statutory legal
basis. A special statutory permit within the meaning of Art. 9
Para. 2 Letters b, h and i GDPR for the processing

As already stated, the processing of data on the vaccination and
serostatus provides for Section 23a Sentence 1 IfSG for the in Section 23 Para.

3 IfSG listed employers in the healthcare sector (including
hospitals, rehabilitation facilities, day clinics, medical and dental
practices, outpatient nursing services, rescue services). The
processing of the vaccination status of the

Activity Report 2021

| 37

Machine Translated by Google

Employees is therefore only permitted by the employers
named in Section 23 (3) IfSG. The amendment to the IfSG of
September 10, 2021 stipulated that for the duration of the
epidemic situation of national scope and insofar as this is
necessary to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease
2019, employers from in § 36 para. 1 and 2 IfSG-designated
institutions (e.g. day care centers, after-school care centers,
schools, homeless shelters) may also process the vaccination
and serostatus in relation to the coronavirus disease 2019
to decide on the establishment of an employment relationship
or on the type of employment, see Section 36 (3) IfSG.
As part of the so-called 2G option model, which was mainly
used by restaurants, bars and clubs, employers therefore
have to check on the basis of the general data protection law
basis whether there is a right to ask questions about the
vaccination and serostatus and whether data processing is
based on this can.
In the above-mentioned statement, my authority pointed out
that in this case the processing of this health data of employees
could not be based on consent. Section 26 (3) sentence 1 of
the German Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) is also
generally not considered as a legal basis, since there is no
legal obligation under labor law, social security law and

social protection is recognizable, since the requirements for
the qualified necessity of processing the vaccination status
according to § 26 paragraph 3 sentence 1 BDSG are not given.
In my view, the newly created § 6a SächsCoronaSchVO in
the version of September 21, 2021 by the Saxon legislature
could not be used as a legal basis for the processing of the
vaccination or convalescence status or test results by the
employer within the framework of the 2G option model, since
Section 32 sentence 1 in conjunction with Section 28 (1)
sentences 1 and 2, Section 28a (1), (2) sentence 1, (3) and
(6) IfSG in the version of July 23, 2021 none

38 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

provided the Saxon legislator with appropriate regulatory
competence for this data processing.
Furthermore, the wording of § 6a SächsCoronaSch VO did
not provide for an obligation to present proof of vaccination
or proof of recovery. The employer was also not authorized
to process the result of a corona test to determine that the
employee was not infected with SARS-CoV-2.
As previously stated, the results are
of corona tests to include health data within the meaning of the

Article 4 paragraph 15 GDPR. The above statements on
processing the vaccination and serostatus apply accordingly
to the processing of this employee data.
The processing of this health data could not be based on §
6a SächsCoronaSchVO, either, as this only stipulated that
employees must have proof of a test, which became an
obligation to submit, deviating from § 5 Para. 3
SächsCoronaSchVO in the version of September 21 2021
(compulsory testing for people returning from vacation),
currently not regulated.
For this reason, the employer's right to ask questions about
the vaccination and convalescence status as part of the socalled 2G option model had to be denied. Furthermore, the
employer regularly had no right to ask questions about the
result of a test for the absence of an infection with SARSCoV-2. It was therefore up to the responsible health authorities
to check compliance with the requirements of § 6a
SächsCoronaSchVO.
Application help of the DSK
Since a large number of questions about the processing of
employee data have to be answered in connection with the
corona pandemic, the conference of the independent data
protection supervisory authorities of the federal and state
DSK application help : ÿ sdb.de/
tb2105

governments has published an application guide.
This includes, among other things, statements on the subject
of whether employers check the vaccination status of
employees in connection with compensation under Section
56 (1) IfSG (so-called quarantine compensation) ver

Activity Report 2021

| 39

Machine Translated by Google

are allowed to work and which data protection issues or
requirements result from § 28b IfSG in the version of
November 22, 2021 from the so-called 3G regulation at
the workplace.
Introduction of an obligation for
employers to check the pandemic health status
According to § 28b IfSG, employers are now obliged to
check whether employees who enter their workplace have
been vaccinated, recovered or tested (duty to check).
For reasons of data minimization and data economy in
accordance with Art. 5 GDPR, it is sufficient for the
employer or employees or third parties commissioned by
the employer to view the proof of vaccination, convalescence or test.
Proof can be provided digitally, for example using the
CovPassCheck app from the Robert Koch Institute.
If third parties are entrusted with the fulfillment of these
tasks, an order processing contract may have to be
concluded. In particular, this should contain regulations
on the non-disclosure obligation of the third party.
Employers who are deployed must also be made aware
of the duty of confidentiality by the employer.
Employers also have the option of implementing simplified
control processes for the “vaccinated” or “recovered”
status. With an effective consent, the employer can record
whether the employee has been vaccinated or recovered
and, if applicable, the end date of the respective status.
However, a copy of the vaccination or recovery certificate
is not required.
If employees provide 3G proof by means of a test
certificate, the above statements apply.
If proof is provided as part of operational testing or by
means of self-tests under supervision,
note that it only records that proof has been provided; the
negative test result must not be processed. If the test is
positive, it can be noted that the employee is not allowed
to enter the workplace. Additional reporting obligations,
such as

40 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

to the responsible health authority, may result from
further regulations.
Employers' obligation to document
Employers must document compliance with the
aforementioned obligations, Section 28b (3) sentence 1
IfSG. It is not clear from the wording of the law in what form –
in particular what degree of differentiation – the
documentation has to take place. Employers have
established processes to check the access requirements.
Regularly documenting these processes will therefore be
sufficient to fulfill the documentation obligation.
Also in 2022 I expect a large number of jobs

and data protection issues in the employee context in
connection with the corona pandemic.

1.2 Easier data transfer
within city administrations
under the GDPR?
ÿ Art. 6 para. 4 GDPR; §§ 3, 4 Saxon GDPR

The data protection officer of a large city administration
asked whether anything significant had changed with
regard to data transfers within a municipal administration
after May 25, 2018, i.e. after the applicability of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). He was
also interested in the continued validity of the principles
of necessity for the fulfillment of tasks, the ban with the
reservation of permission and the informational separation
of powers. The data protection officer received the
following reply from my authority: Art. 6 (4) GDPR also
gives public bodies the option of purpose-compatible
further processing, i.e. processing that is close to the
original purpose of collection, but is not congruent. There
are different views as to whether Art. 6 Para. 4 GDPR
applies to its function
some kind of compatibility test limited or beyond

Activity Report 2021

| 41

Machine Translated by Google

also as a permit for a purpose-changing Wei

processing is to be classified. In my opinion, the history
of the origins, the system of regulations and the wording
of the provision speak in favor of a mere compatibility
test, so that I can state as a result that at least for the
public sector that adheres to the reservation
of the law, the compatibility alone does not allow further
processing that changes the purpose.
In my opinion, a purpose-changing processing, in
particular data transmission, in the public sector can only
be, in my opinion, only rarely permitted
ge consent or on a legal provision according to Art. 6
Para. 1 Letter c or e GDPR. as sole
Sections 3 and 4 of Saxony come with the legal provisions

Data Protection Implementation Act (SächsDSDG) into consideration.

In my opinion, Art. 6 Para. 4 GDPR – apart from cases of
consent and legally permitted further processing for other
purposes (cf. § 4 SächsDSDG) – plays a role for public
bodies in the following cases, for example:
• Use of personal data for purposes other than the
purpose for which it was collected in one’s own
area of responsibility (example: state judiciary cash
register: account data is collected when the debtor
of the court costs is paid for bookkeeping and any
payment reversal and in another, later enforcement
procedure against the debtor – both tasks of the
state justice fund – continues to be used; the purpose
of collection is different from the later purpose of
use. But both are administrative interventions and the
basis for authorization is the same.) • Transmission
to other authorities for the purpose of fulfilling their own
tasks (data is, for example, sent with a request for
notification whether the recipient has information that
the responsible requesting authority needs to fulfill
the task. Another case is enforcement assistance.)

42 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

As a result, I consider transmission by public bodies to other bodies
based on “compatibility of purpose” for the purpose of enabling the
recipient to perform their tasks with the transmitted data to be
inadmissible or inadmissible
for not compatible with the criteria of Art. 6 Para. 4 DSGVO.
Furthermore, further processing, in particular transmission, is of course
permitted on the basis and within the framework of special statutory
further processing regulations, in particular special transmission
regulations. The requirements of existing special transmission regulations
must therefore continue to be observed within the city administration.

According to Recital 50 Sentence 4 GDPR, no special authorization
should expressly be granted for “further processing for archiving
purposes in the public interest, for scientific or historical research
purposes or for sta
tistical purposes”.
Finally, I informed the requesting official data protection officer that the
principle of
friendliness - especially for public authorities - white
Furthermore, as follows from Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter b to f GDPR applies
(where Letter f does not apply to the processing carried out by authorities
in the fulfillment of their tasks). The principle of prohibition subject to
What should I
do? Public bodies must

permission also continues to apply in the public sector for every phase

check the admissibility of this

of processing, including transmission, i.e. a permission standard based

transmission every time it is

on Art. 6 (1) GDPR is still required. The same also applies to the principle

transmitted to another body,
even if the other body part

of informational separation of powers.

same city administration.
See also 2.2.9.

1.3 Creation of the dynamic
teaching aid database Saxony
The State Office for Schools and Education approached my authority in
the spring with the request that when creating a dyna
mix teaching aids database to advise. goal of the project

is to provide digital offers for all teachers in
Evaluate Saxony according to pedagogical aspects

Activity Report 2021

| 43

Machine Translated by Google

and to demonstrate possible uses in the classroom. Of course, data
protection also plays an important role.
Because with a large number of certainly interesting offers that are in
principle well suited for school purposes, there was a problem, after a
rough review of the products and websites available, especially there. My
office
ganger gratefully accepted the offer to participate. I also think it makes
sense to provide support for educators from a central location, instead of
giving each individual teacher the task of checking their professional
suitability and legal admissibility

ability to burden.
With the limited human resources of my agency
it is clear that my employees do not
can check every single offer of such a database. In several workshops,
criteria were therefore developed with which the employees of the media
education departments of the State Office for Schools and Education can
carry out at least a cursory examination of possible offers without
becoming experts for themselves

having to become data protection.

No data transfers to non-European countries
Such an assessment is not easy, especially given the possible use in
schools. The administrative regulation (VwV) for school data protection
clearly formulates the requirements: "Only cloud computing services to
which EU law applies are permitted." This means that data transfers to
non-European countries must be avoided. This not only affects the
location of the actual provider of the app or website, but also the services
integrated into the offer. And that's where the problem often lies, that
many offers for analysis purposes and for reasons of simplification fall
back on offers from mostly US companies and then usage data ends up
there as well. Such offers are clearly unsuitable for school purposes and
simply illegal.

44 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

Consents and Tracking
Another problem concerns consent to data processing.
Even if it is now common practice to consent to all sorts of
things when surfing the web privately or installing an app,
special rules apply to such consent in the school context. If
a learning material is made available (or in the case of
teachers, a teaching material used for official purposes),
consent is generally not possible. On the one hand, there is
no voluntariness, on the other hand, many schoolchildren
are not able to give their consent at all because they are not
of the required age and their parents would therefore be
asked. Websites and apps that require consent (“We need
your consent” or similar) are therefore not suitable for school
use.
Also when it comes to tracking or advertising, which the Ver
keep track of users on the Internet

follows, strict rules apply. Such observation of behavior is
generally not compatible with the educational mandate or
employee data protection.
Inspection tools for apps and websites
How can pedagogically trained employees create an app
or a website in the foreseeable future on data protection

review legal issues? In the first step, the data protection
declaration is examined for any problems (permissions,
transmission to third countries, comprehensibility and
transparency). Unfortunately, this is not enough. In practice,
it was often found that data processing that appears in the
data protection declaration does not take place at all or, far
worse, data processing took place that was not mentioned
in the data protection declaration. All in all, unfortunately, it
must be said that in many cases the data protection
declaration does not cast the best light on the provider. A
technical analysis must also be carried out.
DSK application help : ÿ sdb.de/
tb2105

This can easily be done with publicly available testing tools
such as Privacy Score (privacyscore.org) or Webkoll

Activity Report 2021

| 45

Machine Translated by Google

What should I do?

(webbkoll.dataskydd.net) or for apps Exodus Privacy (exodus-

When using digital teaching
and learning materials,
educational institutions must

privacy.eu.org) . With these instruments, the employees can make a

ensure that, in addition to the
requirements of the GDPR,
area-specific requirements
and that all data processing
is strictly aligned with the
educational mandate.
Minder's data protection
requirements
year-olds as well as teachers
is in a special way

decision and this
document.
Overall, the effort was worth it. The employees have internalized the
background to the decision-making process, and in cases of doubt, a
short shift has also been found
established away to look after sensitive cases at my authority
to seek advice. Cooperation with the State Office for
School and education can therefore be seen as a successful way to use
synergy effects for larger projects and to quickly achieve practice-oriented

to be fair.

results.

46 |

Chapter 1

Machine Translated by Google

2 Principles of data processing

2.1 Data Processing Principles,
Definitions
2.1.1 Logbook edition for a
company - data minimization
ÿ Section 31a paragraph 1 sentence 1 StVZO, Article 5 paragraph 1 letter c GDPR

In a consultation request of a larger craft
Operation is my office with the data protection law
1 sentence 1 of the Road Traffic Licensing Ordinance (StVZO).

A regulatory offenses authority had charged the company with (temporarily)
keeping a logbook and stipulated that every driver had to enter their home
address in addition to their name.

This in turn had the manager of the company as
disproportionate processing, because this would result in a collection of
addresses that a large number of employees would be able to see. He
turned
therefore seeking advice to my office.
Ultimately, my authority was able to convince the fine office that it is
sufficient as a (capable of summoning) address if the company address is
entered, possibly supplemented by the department, a personnel number
or the same, in order to rule out assignment errors. The corresponding is
sufficient for the official fulfillment of tasks.

And on the part of the authority it is also understandable that the
Responsible - the company - in relation to a

Activity Report 2021

| 47

Machine Translated by Google

has to restrict data processing, Art. 5 para. 1 letter c
GDPR.
In order to do justice to adequate and complete bookkeeping, the
companies affected have to
but also to include that any journeys made by third parties - for example
test drives in a repair shop - are to be entered.

practice note
In the logbook, which is usually limited in terms of space, it is not
necessary to enter the typical company address in full for every trip. A
simple internal reference ("according to page ...") is sufficient for the
correct filling in of the address field. The company stamp could be
entered on this page. With his signature, the driver making the entry in
the book also legitimizes the employer and those responsible in a second
step to disclose his home address to the police, administrative offenses
authorities, tax authorities and the public prosecutor's office, if sufficient
What should I do?

Ver

are in a company
to avoid reciprocal disclosures of
employee data that are not required.
To the

moments of thought give reason to do so. Understandably, administrative

information to be protected
the private ones also count in this respect

authorities have to ensure that simplifications do not turn into loopholes.

addresses of employees.

But there should also be no unnecessary disclosure of data and too

Also have public bodies

much data processing. In this respect, the sentence attributed to Albert

general data protection

Einstein applies that something can be made as simple as possible – but

requirements to which companies
are subject must be taken into

not simpler either!

account.

2.1.2 Artificial Intelligence in School:
Area9 Rhapsode
ÿ Art. 4 No. 1, 6 GDPR

In February 2021, the Saxon State Ministry provided information
to my authority for Kultus (SMK) that it intends to test the use of the
"Intelligent Tutorial System Area9 Rhapsode" at Saxon schools. The
special thing about this learning platform: It not only imparts content and
queries knowledge, but also recognizes the different

48 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

student status. Accordingly, it should help them on individual
learning paths until they have really understood a topic. In addition
to content-related answers, the users provide information about
their self-confidence from "I have that
understood" to "I'm not sure about that" to "I don't have any
Idea". If someone gives the wrong answer but ticks that they are
sure, the system recognizes an unconscious incompetence – and
vice versa. The system can be fed with content for all subjects,
school types and age groups. You can also create these yourself

but probably mainly - if they "play along" - come from the school
book publishers and are entered into the system. It is obvious that
this can be a promising way to independently expand knowledge,
especially in times of homeschooling.
For my authority, the decisive factors were initially those who were there

resulting data flows. The manufacturer to whom the SMK
referred to, assumed that no other personal data of the user would
be processed apart from user name, e-mail and password. All
other data collected is "learning data" from the user's interactions

with the system or non-personally identifiable 'technical information'
where data would only be collected and processed to recognize
and register the devices used to access Rhapsode.
My authority informed the manufacturer and the SMK that
that all of the aforementioned data can be assigned to a student
and should therefore be personal data in accordance with Art. 4
No. 1, 6 DSGVO. Their processing therefore requires a legal basis
- also for test purposes. This is also to ensure that data from
Saxon students is not outside
of the school context can be used, for example, to improve the
product. My authority expressly questioned the use of "AWS
services", i.e. Amazon's cloud offer, since it cannot be fully
guaranteed that all data will remain in Germany. The

Questions from my authority remained unanswered.

Activity Report 2021

| 49

Machine Translated by Google

Instead, a press release from the SMK dated July 8, 2021
stated that the test of the "Intelligent Tutorial System (ITS)
Area9 Rhapsode" had started.
When I asked, my agency found out that Amazon's cloud
service was being used for this. Despite this serious data
protection violation, an instruction according to Art. 58
Para. 2 Letter f) GDPR - to stop the test operation
immediately - was refrained from in view of the imminent
end of the school year. The Minister of State informed my
authority in a letter that the
The concerns expressed due to a lack of coordination
between the various participants in the SMK had not been
taken into account, and assured that for the future use of
the "Area9 Rhapsode" system, data protection law
Matters checked and granted in close cooperation with me
be provided. This is also my impression from the

discussions that took place with the SMK.

2.2 Legality
requirements for data
processing
2.2.1 Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter e GDPR
in connection with a jurisdiction
regulation no legal basis for public
bodies
Occasionally, even in the fourth year of direct application
of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), when
I ask an authority or other public body about the legal
basis for the processing of personal data carried out there,
I receive the answer that the processing is based on Art. 6
Para. 1 Letter e GDPR in connection with the relevant
statutory jurisdiction for the requested body.
This view is at least with regard to public position
Len of the Free State of Saxony inapplicable.

50 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

Because knowledge of the applicable legal basis for the
Lawfulness of official processing of personal data is essential and the
information to be given
affected persons according to Art. 13 Para. 1 Letter c GDPR
are mandatory, inaccuracies on this issue are acceptable.

Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter e GDPR does not form a legal basis for the processing
of personal data, even in connection with a statutory assignment of tasks

public bodies. Rather, a legal action is required
schrift within the meaning of Art. 6 Para. 3 Sentence 1 GDPR, which
explicitly allows the processing of personal data. It goes without saying
that this processing must be necessary for the public body to fulfill its
tasks (Article 6 (3) sentence 2 GDPR, cf. also recital 45 sentences 1 and
3 of the GDPR). Member State processing regulations as the legal basis
for encroachments on the fundamental right to informational selfdetermination in accordance with Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter e GDPR must meet
the constitutional requirements for intervention norms for state bodies
(recital 41 of the GDPR). Even in connection with Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter e
GDPR, pure task assignments fail to meet the requirements of the
European Court of Justice (ECJ) and the European Court of Human
Rights (ECtHR) for the specificity and “foreseeability” of a norm affecting
fundamental rights, which according to the The will of the EU legislator
must be taken into account for "legal bases" within the meaning of the
GDPR (recital 41 of the GDPR). National constitutional law, which leads
to the same finding here, remains within the framework of Art. 6 para. 1

Letters c and e GDPR - with regard to these provisions, the GDPR, as
well as on individual other points,
Directive character and leaves the member states room for maneuver in conjunction with Art. 6 Para. 2 and 3 GDPR unaffected according to
the will of the legislator (recital 41 of the GDPR), so that the requirements
formulated by the Federal Constitutional Court for the specificity of
overriding norms must also be met . That is

Activity Report 2021

| 51

Machine Translated by Google

This is the case with explicit processing powers, but not
with pure task assignment norms.
Regarding the processing of personal data
by Saxon public authorities within the meaning of Section 2 Paragraph 1

In the Saxon Data Protection Implementation Act
(SächsDSDG), the legislator determined in § 3 para. 1
SächsDSDG that - unless the processing can be based
on overriding regulations in special specialist law processing is permissible if it is used to fulfill the
responsibility of the person responsible related task or in
the exercise of official authority that has been transferred
to the person responsible. If no area-specific data
processing regulation applies, § 3 SächsDSDG acts as a
sort of catch-all standard for data processing by public
bodies in the Free State.
The "recourse" of a public body in the Free State to
determine the relevant legal basis for its processing of
personal data is Art. 6 Para of the relevant national
legislation(s) or out of unwillingness to apply them –
What should I

neither permitted (see above) nor necessary. Saxon

do? Public Saxon authorities

public authorities are not entitled to disregard applicable

must know the legal basis for their

law and effective legal provisions addressed to them

processing of personal data, identify
and data subjects

inform about this. A return
access to Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter e
GDPR in connection with a legal
assignment of responsibility is

not to apply. Of course, there is no case of a possible
primacy of application of EU law.

excluded.

2.2.2 E-mail notice in the staff room
ÿ Art. 6 GDPR

A practice counselor who conducts careers guidance at
high schools informed my agency that she
private e-mail account had sent a message to the
headmistress's private e-mail address. In the message
she cited her child's illness as one of the reasons for her
absences. The Practice Advisor

52 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

later found out that this e-mail was posted in the staff room and therefore
both her private e-mail address and its content were visible to the entire
teaching staff.
The headmistress asked for a statement by my authority stated that the
petitioner's absences could be explained
had led to financial distress towards students and parents. That is why
she contacted the provider of the practice advice, which announced an email from the petitioner. Irrespective of the private e-mail address used,
the school could therefore assume that this was an official connection.

However, it was not necessary for this e-mail to be posted in full in the
staff room. My authority therefore informed the headmistress that
information about “personal reasons” or blacking out the respective
passages would have been sufficient. Alternatively, the petitioner could
have been asked for a corresponding consent.

2.2.3 Data transmission of
a mobile phone number by the
retailer to a shipping service provider
ÿ § 242 BGB, Article 6 Paragraph 1 Letter b GDPR, Article 13 Paragraph 1 Letter e
GDPR, Article 14 GDPR

A customer of an online retailer complained that it was
ne mobile phone number intended only for the dealer
transmits this to the shipping service provider and this
him before the goods ordered arrive at the customer's
sent via SMS. Complaints of this kind, as far as data transfer is concerned,
my authority has not sel
to record.
The situation was complicated by the fact that the customer was able to
enjoy express delivery at no extra cost due to a seasonal bonus campaign
and regional availability. The customer may have either overlooked the
field (“Express”) that was already pre-assigned when ordering or
misjudged its mode of operation.

Activity Report 2021

| 53

Machine Translated by Google

In this case, Article 6 (1) (b) of the General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) came into consideration as the legal
basis for the transmission of the phone number to the
mailing service provider due to the proper fulfillment of the
contract. In the case at hand, consent was not required.
The shipment had been part of the contract, and the
customer had chosen free express delivery. It is also part
of the obligation of the e-commerce customer to find out
about the delivery conditions before concluding the
contract, which in the present case, according to my
findings, was easily possible and changeable by looking
at the selection area on the website. The order page was ver
understandable and in no way misleading.

When ordering the "express" shipping method, I am
convinced that the customer should be informed in a way
that he is able to take note of immediately, which is
desirable on the part of the customer and necessary on
the part of the company. In this respect, it also corresponds
to Section 242 of the German Civil Code (BGB). Other
forms of communication, such as e-mail notifications,
would in too many cases, based on general experience,
not result in the recipient being aware of the express
delivery method owed in good time. In view of the interests
involved, I assumed that it was permissible to transmit the
telephone number to be entered by the customer in the
ordering process to the postal service provider.
However, the company was responsible for the fact that
the transmission of the telephone number to the “Express”
shipping method was not explicitly mentioned in its data
protection information as a legal defect, Art. 13 Para. 1
Letter e GDPR. This was followed by the question of
whether this might affect the admissibility of the data
transmission. As a result, I again denied this. The following
considerations were decisive for me:

54 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

According to recital 47 of the General Data Protection Regulation,
even an assumed legitimate interest must be measured by whether
a data subject can reasonably expect processing in the given
situation.
This is especially true in contractual relationships.
A requirement that was not sufficiently clearly communicated in advance

approach would be generally suitable for influencing expectations
towards the exclusion of processing; however, this does not apply
across the board, but must be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Ultimately, this is also supported by the fact that Art. 13 GDPR itself
makes no statement about the possible legal consequences of the
violation of the information obligation.
No special circumstances could be inferred from the individual case
to be examined. This leaves the check of the typical expectations
(particularly for the product group) on the part of the customer. Here
I came to the conclusion that successful delivery using all available
communication channels can and must be regarded as common
practice, at least in the case of express shipments. The passing on
of contact data that goes beyond the name and address to the
postal service provider is ultimately also subjectively to be expected
by the customer in the case of express deliveries. From the lack in
data protection
information could for the facts described
no exclusion of data transfer can be derived.
What should I do?

However, my authority pointed out to the company that the data

Especially in the area of trade
especially with e-com

protection information was misleading in relation to the specific

merce, those responsible should

circumstances and suggested a clarifying wording. The corresponding

comply with the information

data protection declaration was then adapted.

obligations, if only out of their own interest
Art. 13 and 14 GDPR complete
fulfill dig. If necessary, expert advice

It would be unrealistic, comprehensive, complete and completely

should be obtained.

correct data protection information in accordance with Articles 13 and 14

Disputed transfers of data within

GDPR of data processing companies and others

the framework of contractual
relationships are also under Ein

jobs to be expected. As far as the General Data Protection

relationship of the general clause

Regulation and the interpretation of the standards are concerned,

of § 242 BGB, according to trust and

the development of the law is far from complete; Not to mention a

Believe with respect to the
Traffic custom with regard to

coherent Europe-wide application of the provisions. To the extent

assess their admissibility.

that those responsible for the shutdown of Infor

Activity Report 2021

| 55

Machine Translated by Google

If I work cooperatively with the lack of information, I also recognize my
work as fruitful. But I also advocate
that responsible persons contact each other when necessary and in cases of doubt

Contact a knowledgeable data protection advisor at an early stage.

Structural recurrences and attempts to cover up misconduct weigh
more heavily than uncertainties and mistakes. The same applies if
necessary
sanction.

2.2.4 Video surveillance to
analyze the driving behavior of e-scooters
ÿ Section 15 (4) eKFV; Article 6 paragraph 1 letter f GDPR; Art. 9 para. 1, 2 GDPR; § 27 paragraph 1 BDSG;
Art. 25 and 32 GDPR

Since the release of the small electric vehicles (eKF) - better
known as e-scooters - on public roads is the
The number of accidents involving these vehicles has risen sharply.
Scientific monitoring of the participation of eKF in road traffic was
already suggested when it was approved (§ 15 Para. 4 Small Electric
Vehicles Ordinance - eKFV), which was carried out by the Federal
Highway Research Institute (BASt) with the research project "Scientific
Monitoring of the Participation of Small Electric Vehicles in Road
Traffic". was brought to the way. The BASt has commissioned the traffic
accident research at the TU Dresden GmbH (VUFO) together with
various partners to carry out the research project in order to ultimately
shape the discussion about the vehicles on an objective basis with
correct argumentation in the future.

Research goal and concept
Against this background, the VUFO approached my office with a data
protection concept that encompassed the data protection aspects of
the research project. An essential part of the research was the analysis
of the driving behavior of e-scooters, which the VUFO wanted to
investigate more closely by means of video observation in real traffic
situations (limited route section). As places

56 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

for traffic observation, streets were both in
Both Dresden and Berlin are planned, with the choice of location being
based on the frequency of eKF transits, infrastructural aspects and a
possible high number
conflict oriented.
For this purpose, a camera box should be installed at a height of 4 meters

(Mobile observation box) with a recording device in which the video
sequences are stored in encrypted form to protect against unauthorized
access.
The evaluation of the video material should take place at a specialized
company in Vienna, since automated processing on site was not possible
for reasons of space and security. The access

on the video recordings and the selection for the for
Research projects for relevant sequences should only take place
automatically and the remaining video material – after evaluation and
pseudonymization – should be deleted immediately afterwards. Already
by reducing the image quality, the identification of natural persons

complicated and also by a weekly location
longer, continuous recording times are avoided

become.
Both the users of eKF and those involved in the conflict, as well as
uninvolved persons who happened to be present and observed, were
potentially affected by the video surveillance. The data was processed
on the basis of algorithms that automatically recognize eKF in road traffic
based on their special appearance and use this to create a driving line
(trajectory). There was neither a "recognition" of users nor a manual
review

of the video material provided. The aim of the video observation was to
use the chronological order of the image sequences to understand and
present driving movements and speeds in order to gain insights into the
speeds driven, the distances maintained and the traffic areas used. In
addition, an accident-analytical assessment of any conflict or accident
situations that may have arisen should be carried out. Even if in contrast

Activity Report 2021

| 57

Machine Translated by Google

to avoid influencing traffic behavior as far as possible during a laboratory
test, the data protection concept – by necessity – provided for
appropriate signage.

processing of health data
was essential for the success of the research project
in particular, knowledge of the nature and severity of Ver

injuries in an accident involving small electric vehicles. Indirect
conclusions about the state of health of the persons involved in the
accident could thus be drawn from the observed (accident) events

pull. Ultimately, this is health data
(special categories of personal data, Art. 4 No.
15 GDPR) for which there is a legal ban on processing (Article 9 (1)
GDPR). With the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG), the national
legislature has of the in Art.
9 Para. 1 Letter j GDPR used and specified there in § 27 for the
purposes of science and research under which conditions the basic
processing ban of Art.

9 Para. 1 GDPR does not apply in exceptional cases. According to
§ 27 paragraph 1 BDSG, the prerequisite for this is that
• the processing of special categories of personal data is necessary
for the stated purposes and
• exacerbated to the general weighing of interests of
Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter f GDPR the interests of the Ver
responsible with the processing to the privileged
Purposes the interests of the data subject significantly

predominate.
Art. 9 GDPR and Section 27 BDSG alone do not form an independent
legal basis for the processing of personal data. Because the assessment
of the legal admissibility for the processing of health data can only be
made together with a provision of Art. 6 Para. 1 DSGVO. The
admissibility of traffic monitoring under data protection law and the
associated processing of personal

58 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

I saw the legitimate interests of Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter f GDPR in conjunction
with Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter j GDPR (in conjunction with Section 27 Para. 1
BDSG) as justified.
My authority was able to agree with the risk assessment carried out by
the VUFO and came to the conclusion that the numerous precautions
and measures taken by the VUFO ultimately involved only minimal legal
interference. In any case, there was no indication that the interest of the
road users operating in the observation area outweighed the research
interest.

Data protection compliant implementation
The subject of the consultation was the examination of the data
protection legal focal points of the research concept. In this respect, my
authority has communicated its comments to the VUFO on the presented
concept, which have been implemented accordingly. In the bilateral
exchange, the data protection law implied by the research project

common principles discussed and concurring feast
decisions on this and reached an agreement on fundamental positions.
It was important to inform the public in advance. As well as

in the press as well as on the websites of VUFO and mei
Information about this was published by an authority. The VUFO has

on the affected road sections before entering the
What should I do?

video-monitored area also protects data

Depending on the purpose,
video surveillance in generally

specifications corresponding complete information sheet attached. In

accessible areas is permitted

addition, I have instructed VUFO to ensure that technical and

minimize, pseudonymize and

organizational measures are taken in accordance with Articles 25 and

promptly anonymize. These are in
practice

32 GDPR.

only in exceptional cases

It is not possible to say exactly whether it was ultimately due to the large-

comprehensive consideration of interests

scale public relations work or the professional implementation on the part

justifiable. Automated methods, on
the other hand, allow the instantaneous

of the VUFO, but my authority did not receive a single request or

conversion of the recorded video

submission for traffic monitoring. As a result, the data obtained with the

recording

participation of the Dresden road users made an important contribution

data in information that can no longer

as a basis for an evaluation of the e-scooter driving behavior based on

be assigned to individual individuals is
to be given preference.

this, the future participation of the

Activity Report 2021

| 59

Machine Translated by Google

Making e-scooters safer on the road. One may

be curious how and in what form the won He
Knowledge of the by the Federal Ministry of Transport

and digital infrastructure for amending the eKFV.

2.2.5 Limits of Video Surveillance
of Private Property
ÿ Article 2(2)(c) GDPR, Article 6(1)(f) GDPR

Private camera operators often think they are in line with
data protection law when they turn off their video cameras
eventually align to their own private lots. In most cases I
am against this as well
no objection. Because data protection law applies to

Video surveillance does not apply if it is carried out by a
natural person to carry out exclusively personal or family
activities and thus has no connection to a professional or
economic activity, see the so-called household exception
in Article 2 Paragraph 2 Letter c data protection General
Regulation (GDPR). However, this does not justify video
surveillance if a business with customer traffic is (also)
set up on the private property or if there is an apartment
building. The recourse to the household exception also
does not apply to private property areas in which other
people enter
have a right of ownership, right of use or right of residence.

Occasionally, residents of a back-lying property turn to
me. Because if you buy a property that does not have its
own road access, you can only do so via the neighboring
property. Experience has shown that this is often the
starting point for a neighborhood dispute, for example
about who should
Wear and tear or damage will be charged for the cost of
repairing the trail. This was the case in a case that became
known to my authority. The background was alleged damage
to the path, which the person lying behind is said to have caused.

60 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

The neighbor brought a video to document it

camera an.
Due to the non-applicability of the budget exception mentioned,
admissibility could at best result from legitimate interests, Article 6 (1)
(f) GDPR.
However, it is not possible to use this to legitimize the video surveillance
of the access area secured by land register law, even if this is on the
camera operator's own property. Of course, if the requirements of Art. 2
Para. 2 Letter c GDPR are met, the property owner may permissibly
monitor all other areas not covered by the right of way. However, this
no longer applies to the path area covered by the land register entry there the legitimate interests of the users of the right of way (locators
behind, visitors, craftsmen, postal service providers, etc.) not to be
monitored by the owner via video during the unavoidable passage of
this path prevail there .

I get the same result when the property owner monitors his private road.
This is what happened in another case brought to my attention, in which
the private road was owned by several residents.

Although the owners of the private road agreed on video surveillance
there, this did not change my legal assessment. In this case, too, the
circle of those affected is much broader, especially since the circle of

Local residents expanded and these no stake in the private
have a street, but have to use this access road to reach their property.
Ultimately, for purely practical reasons, video surveillance can hardly be
based on the consent solution in any conceivable case, since this would
require the informed and voluntary consent of all persons affected, Art. 6

Paragraph 1 letter a GDPR.

In another case, a citizen contacted my agency because he spotted a
video camera on a public footpath. As it turned out during my
investigations, this was on private property, but it was

Activity Report 2021

| 61

Machine Translated by Google

Path dedicated several decades ago as a limited public path
by the municipality. In this respect, the property owner is
restricted in the use of his private property and may not
permanently monitor the hikers and walkers using the path.
As far as wildlife cameras in private forest areas are
concerned, I also get input and inquiries about this from time to time.
My predecessor in office dealt with this in the 7th activity
report (No. 8.1.2), but at that time under the old Federal Data
Protection Act and thus the legal situation before the
application of the General Data Protection Regulation.
However, even under the current legal situation, nothing has
changed in the data protection assessment at that time.
Section 6b, paragraph 1, number 3 of the Federal Data
What should I do?

property owners and
Camera operators should before In

Protection Act has been replaced by the provision of Article
6, paragraph 1, letter f of the GDPR, which in the same way

operation of video technology

requires a decision to weigh up the existence of legitimate

first check whether third

interests, which in the case of private forest areas is generally

parties could be affected

in favor the forest users (hikers, mushroom pickers, etc.) are absent.

by the detection range of
the intended video cameras. Is

As a result, the reasoning of the Federal Court of Justice of

this is the case and it is

April 25, 1995, Az. VI ZR 272/9, for the illegality of private

an area accessible to
third parties should be

video surveillance in public traffic can be applied to the cases

Measure to be refrained from,
as far as effective
Consent from all those
affected – as in these cases
regularly – will not be
catchable.

presented. Even in the case of publicly accessible privately
owned property areas, the interests of those affected that are
worthy of protection generally outweigh the surveillance
interests of the camera operator.

2.2.6 Curious and strange things
about videography
ÿ Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter f GDPR

Time and time again, during my investigations, I experience
how little thought some camera operators give to the limits of
video surveillance and that they violate the informational selfdetermination rights of the people being observed if they
have innocent fellow human beings under constant
surveillance. It amazes me all the more which ones

62 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

Arguments that those responsible sometimes use to justify the use of
cameras; Justifications that are also obviously not suitable as a
justification for processing based on a legitimate interest pursuant to
Article 6 (1) (f) of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Alternative to the TV program
In one case, for example, the municipal security service in a Saxon city
contacted my authority because it
Window sills on the third floor of a residential building meh
rere video cameras. The camera operator let the
municipal officials unabashedly look at the video surveillance and
willingly provided them with information on this. He had positioned the
cameras to face the sloping street in front of the apartment building,
but because of the camera angles he could also see several apartment
buildings opposite.

The municipal employees were probably amazed
when the camera operator justified the cameras he installed with
entertainment purposes, especially in winter when fresh snow had fallen
and motor vehicles had problems on the road slope. Although no video
recording took place due to the outdated technology used, the apartment
owner transmitted the live images from the cameras to his analog TV
set in order to add an (additional)

add live channel. It can only be assumed that he was probably not
completely satisfied with the range of programs offered by conventional
TV stations.
control of public infrastructure
In another case, a citizen police officer described to me the difficulties
she was having with a private property owner. After she had the
suspicion that he was also observing the public traffic area beyond the
property fence with the camera on the house pointing in the direction of
the entrance gate, she spoke to the camera operator. He frankly
admitted that

Activity Report 2021

| 63

Machine Translated by Google

he actively operates the camera and cited the reasons for the
Video surveillance indicates that cyclists and municipal building yard
workers are constantly being used during clearing and gritting work,
but also postal and newspaper deliverers would drive their vehicles on
the sidewalk in front of the residential property. He already has a team of
horses on it
see driving. In addition, the lawn would be in front of the reason
piece not maintained regularly. That's why he meant this
would have to be checked and obviously saw itself
appointed for this. In the course of further investigations, it became
known that he once even contacted the responsible building yard
manager because of what he considered to be the poor quality of the
winter service and presented video recordings from his camera as
evidence of this.

In the first case, I was able to persuade the camera operator to
completely dismantle the video cameras. In the other case, the
homeowner showed me that he had the camera alignment
changed it at my request in such a way that only his private entrance to
the property was still included.
Due to the seriousness of the legal violations, I could not avoid issuing a
warning to the camera operators in both cases.

2.2.7 Provision of billing
documents within a homeowners
association
ÿ § 18 Para. 4 WEMoG, Art. 4 No. 1 and 2 GDPR, Art. 6 Para. 1 and 3 GDPR, Art. 32 GDPR

Due to the contact restrictions associated with the fight against the
corona pandemic, the shift of services to the Internet has received an
impetus.
Last but not least, this poses new challenges for those responsible, who
have to take increased measures, especially in the digital processing of
personal data, in order to do justice to data protection. Because he has
exercised his right to informational self-determination through the

64 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

faithful housing management saw hurt, an apartment owner turned to my
authority with a petition.
The property management had sent all co-owners an e-mail with which
they could read about the annual statement for
the year 2020 were informed. The email contained next to
A link to an internet portal also directly accessible PDF documents, each
of which was labeled with a consecutive number and the respective
owner's name. After registering on an internet portal, each of the more
than 60 owners could access them and granted access to all billing
documents (individual bills plus heating and water bills) of all apartment
owners of the residential property in question.

The housing administration justified this approach with the fact that the
exact design of each owner
entitled right to inspect the administrator and thus
the billing documents are also her sole responsibility. She was of the
opinion that the personal data of the owners and tenants contained in the
individual invoices were not subject to the General Data Protection
Regulation.
After explaining the facts with reference to the increase
The current provision of documents by owner associations in digital form
was of fundamental importance for a large number of management
companies, my authority presented the issue to the responsible working
group of the data protection supervisory authorities in order to achieve a
coordinated legal opinion there.

legal basis sought
But first to the question of the applicability of data protection law within
a homeowners' association, specifically with regard to the disclosure of
billing documents. In addition to owner and

Tenant names also individual consumption values and thus
Undoubtedly personal data within the meaning of Art. 4 No. 1 General
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The processing - here in the form
of disclosure (Art. 4 No. 2 DSGVO) - is to be assessed according to the
data protection regulations.

Activity Report 2021

| 65

Machine Translated by Google

The property manager obviously failed to notice that the
federal legislature also expressly made it clear in the
explanatory memorandum that with the statutory right of
inspection in Section 18 (4) of the Housing Ownership Act
(WEG), which will apply from December 1, 2020, “of
course, mandatory data protection requirements must be
observed”. (Bundestag printed paper 19/18791 on Section
18 (4) of the Home Ownership Modernization Act – WEMoG).
Accordingly, a legal basis pursuant to Art. 6 (1) GDPR
would have been required for a permissible data disclosure.
In the absence of a legal obligation to pass on data,
processing based on Article 6 (1) (c) GDPR was ruled out.
According to this, the processing of personal data is only
lawful if it is necessary to fulfill a legal obligation to which
the person responsible is subject. The processing purpose
must be expressly defined as such in the legal basis, Art. 6
Para. 3 Sentence 2 GDPR.
However, the provision of Section 18 Paragraph 4 WEG
(formerly derived from Section 24 Paragraph 6 Sentence 3
and Paragraph 7 Sentence 8 WEG in conjunction with
Sections 675, 666 of the Civil Code in conjunction with the
management contract) contains only one individual claim
“The public has an
insatiable curiosity to
know everything but not
the worth knowing.”
Oscar Wilde

apartment owner to inspect the administrative documents
and thus also the records and billing documents as well as
the individual bills of the other apartment owners. The right
of inspection is intended to enable the apartment owner to
check the administrative activities and, in connection with
the annual accounts, to check the correctness of the
accounts relating to him. All that is required for this is an
application without the authorization of the other apartment
owners, without a prior resolution in this regard being
passed by the owners’ meeting and without the presentation of a (legal)
interest (see Bundestag printed paper 19/18791 on Section
18 (4) WEMoG). This is offset by the obligation of the
property manager, with the exception of the abusive or
vexatious exercise of rights, to grant access to the
manager's documents.

66 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

A requirement for the disclosure of the administrative
documents is therefore a relevant application by the
owner. Authorization for the complete and applicationindependent disclosure of accounting documents (here:
annual accounts including individual accounts as well as
documents for utility bills, esp.
Heating and hot water bills) as part of the administrative
documents for all owners - in anticipation of individually
asserted rights of inspection - cannot be derived from this,
however.
Legitimate interest no reason
The property manager could not invoke legitimate
interests either, cf. Article 6 (1) (f) GDPR.
According to this, the processing is only lawful if it is
necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the person
responsible or a third party, unless the interests
sen or fundamental rights and freedoms of those affected

persons who require the protection of personal data
prevail. These conditions were also not met in the present
case.
My authority already recognized no legitimate interest
on the part of the house manager. With a benevolent Be

At best, this could consist of a reduced amount of time
and work required to process individual inspection claims.
If one wanted to see a legitimate interest in this, then
there was no need for the unsolicited provision of all billing
documents from all property owners independently of the
application. The pandemic-related (preferably) electronic
provision of documents could not change anything here.
The legislature gives the administrator the choice of the
form in which he makes the billing documents available to
an apartment owner who contacts him with a request for
inspection, i.e. whether in the conventional way with
physical provision on the business premises or in digital
form. However, the latter in particular should save time
and money

Activity Report 2021

| 67

Machine Translated by Google

possible, for example by assigning appropriate rights
when accessing an Internet portal or in the form of an
encrypted transmission of billing documents, these can
be sent to specific recipients and without great effort.
Also with regard to the additional disclosure of tenant
data, even if only the names, I could not see any
necessity.
Disclosure not lawful
Ultimately, the consideration to be carried out in the
second stage also showed that owners do not have to
accept the unsolicited and unfounded disclosure of all
billing-relevant data to other owners. Otherwise, the data
protection fundamental right of the affected owners –
especially in the internet age – could be undermined
across the board and virtually without barriers with
reference to reasons for cost savings and advancing
technical possibilities. However, the mere fact that many
services have shifted to the Internet, not least as a result

of the experiences from the corona pandemic, does not imply an (autom
Withdrawal of the basic data protection right of the persons concerned

Persons.
DSK working group shares
opinion The responsible working group of the data
protection conference (DSK) confirmed my legal opinion
and there was agreement that the unsolicited disclosure
of the individual bills within a homeowners' association
violates Art. 6 GDPR, unless the prior informed consent
of the persons concerned owner exists. When asserting
the individual right of inspection, however, all individual
bills and billing-relevant consumption values must be
disclosed to the applicant in full – with the exception of
any tenant data.

68 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

Otherwise, from a data protection point of view, there are basically no
objections to the outsourcing of billing data to an internet portal, provided
that the security of the processing is ensured by technical and
organizational measures (Article 32 GDPR). This can be made possible
with a staged disclosure of the accounting documents, for example by
restricting access (depending on a request for inspection) depending on
What should I do?

the content and type of the documents stored there. Ultimately, according

The administrator can also

to the intention of the legislature, an expressly formulated request by the

provide billing documents within a

owner is required for inspection ("Every apartment owner can […] request

homeowners association digitally by

inspection of the administrative documents.", see Section 18 (4) WEG).

means of a retrieval. The are available
for inspection

The right to inspect receipts does not imply any obligation or authority
on the part of the property manager to transmit all individual bills to all
apartment owners without being requested to do so. In contrast,

only provide authorized persons with
the documents permitted under data
protection law.

anticipatory disclosure would be an imposed flood of information that not
every homeowner wants.

on the part of the person responsible
According to Art. 32 GDPR, it must be
ensured that the data is kept available
in accordance with information security.

2.2.8 Core area of
private life also
protected in the visa process
ÿ § 86 AufenthG, Art. 2 Abs. 1 GG in connection with Art. 1 Abs. 1 GG

I was contacted by a petitioner who was a husband
ner still living abroad from a Saxon woman

Immigration Office was requested by email, im Rah
of his wife's visa procedure for further examination
ing the proof of contact, the chat history on WhatsApp or the medium
the petitioner used with his wife
uses to submit, whereby this also applies to correspondence
include how sent image files and the common
me call log. This e-mail from the Immigration Office was a

This was preceded by a formal letter from the authority asking the
petitioner to provide all evidence of contact with his wife (e-mails, chat
histories, call logs and the like).

Activity Report 2021

| 69

Machine Translated by Google

inviolability of privacy
My office asked the competent authority for a statement and pointed out
that they considered the official request for the transmission of "all contact
records" and complete private chat histories to be inadmissible. The
request for the submission of complete private chat histories represents a
serious official intervention in Article 2 (1) of the Basic Law (GG) in
conjunction with Article 1 (1) of the Basic Law and requires a constitutional
legal basis from which the requirements and the scope of the Restrictions
are clear and recognizable for the citizen and thus corresponds to the rule
of law requirement of norm clarity. However, the Residence Act (AufenthG)
does not contain a special basis for authorizing such a far-reaching survey
measure. Section 86 sentence 1 AufenthG merely represents a basic act
of authorization to collect data, which does not include particularly in-depth
collections of sensitive data. In addition, the foreigners authority has to
observe the inviolability of the spouses' privacy at all times during the
review (Administrative Court of Hesse, March 21, 2000, Az.: 12 TG
2545/99). At least parts of private chats between spouses, including image
files that have been sent, will regularly fall within the core area of private
life.

The authority announced that an official right to order the submission of
certain documents also from view
the foreigners authority does not exist. This is also in the
been recognizable from official letters. Also in
inform the immigration authorities about those affected
personal visits, regularly orally, that the selection decision for the
submission of suitable evidence lies with the persons concerned
themselves. Insofar as the evidence is intimate or insidious, the person
concerned is free not to submit the data. If no suitable evidence is
provided, the immigration authorities can only decide on the basis of the
files. Around

70 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

to avoid misunderstandings in the future - in particular due to the lack of
personal visits by the person concerned
the corona pandemic

– the immigration authorities suggested

drafting a corresponding information sheet for those affected and handing
it out to them. Nevertheless, from the point of view of the foreigners
authority, the verifiable description of the organisational, emotional and
mental Ver
bond between spouses in suspected cases does not work
without touching the core area of privacy and the right to informational
self-determination.
No obligation to disclose highly
personal circumstances
My office then has the immigration office
pointed out that the official letters sent so far did not contain any clear
indication of the extent of sufficient proof of contact or the voluntariness
of the submission. The official letter only stated that the documents were
“required”, stating a deadline for submission. Also the indication that
circumstances not asserted in a timely manner are not taken into account
in the decision-making process by the authorities did not correspond to
the general understanding of voluntary participation.

The notice from the foreigners authority that the
I clearly objected to the fact that the organisational, emotional and
intellectual ties between spouses, which is to be examined under verifiable
circumstances, cannot be carried out in full without touching on the core
area of the private sphere.

The core area of private life is absolutely protected and, according to the
established case law of the Federal Constitutional Court, is without
exception withdrawn from any state access. Even overriding interests of
the general public cannot justify an intervention in this absolutely protected
core area of private life (BVerfG, 03/03/2004, Az.: 1 BvR 2378/98, 1 BvR
1084/99). For the development of personality in the core area of private
life

Activity Report 2021

| 71

Machine Translated by Google

design includes the possibility of internal processes such as
To express sensations and feelings, as well as reflections,
views and experiences of a highly personal nature, without
fear that public authorities will do so
monitor and evaluate. Also included in the protection

Expressions of feelings, expressions of unconscious experience
and forms of expression of sexuality (BVerfG, March 3, 2004,
Az.: 1 BvR 2378/98, 1 BvR 1084/99). Against this background,
the foreigners authority must ensure that in future requests for
proof of contact for the examination of living conditions by the
foreigners authority that the affected
a person avoids the impression of communication
including sent pictures are completely open

(keyword “chat histories”).
Clear notices to affected individuals
I expressly welcomed the creation of the information sheet
advised by the immigration authorities and suggested that
corresponding information on voluntariness and the protection
What should I do?

of the core area of private life should be included.

The core area of private life
is absolutely protected and

After the content of the immigration authority, the responsible

without exception withdrawn

data protection officer and my authority had been coordinated,

from state access.

the immigration authority has been handing out what I believe

Authorities are not allowed to do this

data from the area

to be a successful information sheet to those affected for a few

raise.

months.

2.2.9 Use of account details for
future proceedings by the State
Justice Fund
ÿ Art. 6 Para. 4 GDPR, Art. 13 Para. 3 GDPR

One petitioner reported that the Landesjustizkasse (LJK) had
issued a seizure and bank transfer order against the bank that
held her account. She wondered how the LJK knew her bank
details.
At the request of my authority, the LJK, a department of the
Higher Regional Court (OLG) Dresden, reported that the bank
details from a previous cost

72 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

drawing proceedings against the petitioner was known.
This had arisen from one of those affected using About
payment caused by the instructions. The collection and
processing of the payment data serves to fulfill the tasks of
the LJK as an enforcement authority.
The original, first use of the account data relates to the
specific process for which the data was originally collected
had been or in which the data - here by the of

transfer initiated by the party liable for costs – became
known. The continued use in any other, later procedures
represents a change of purpose, which is permissible under
Article 6 (4) of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
Permitted repurposing use
I consider this practice of further processing the account
connection data in a different procedure, according to
which my predecessor had considered such processing for
other purposes to be permissible even before the GDPR
came into force and under the old legal situation, to be
permissible under the current provisions of the GDPR. The
purpose-changing further processing is in accordance with
the requirements of Art. 6 Para. 4 GDPR. The regulation
describes the conditions under which processing of personal
data for a purpose other than that for which the data was
originally collected is permissible.
Also up for discussion was the question of whether,
according to the criteria specified in Art. 6 Para or any other
procedure) can be used against this debtor. Recital 50 of
the GDPR explains that – in addition to the category of data
concerned and the consequences of further processing for
the data subject – it must also be checked whether, taking
into account the relationship between the data subject and
the person responsible (LJK), they can reasonably expect
this must or can that the data be used in other ways. It's up
to me

Activity Report 2021

| 73

Machine Translated by Google

Eighth, it is reasonable to expect that account connection data
disclosed to the LJK will also be used by the LJK for the purpose of
its enforcement task, as long as the data is lawfully stored and
available to the LJK.

Less intrusive than new third-party data collection
In the context of the necessary consideration, it must also be taken
into account that it is less intrusive in terms of data protection if the
LJK uses account details that are known to it again in a future case
than if it sends a query to the Federal Central Tax Office regarding
the existing bank details of the debtor ( cf. Section 802l (1) of the
Code of Civil Procedure) and in this context would process more of
the debtor's data and even involve a third party.

However, according to Art. 13 Para. 3 GDPR, the LJK is obliged to
inform the data subject comprehensively about the change in
purpose before further processing
ren. Even before the GDPR came into force, the LJK had to
Coordination with my authority since 2013, together with the request
for payment, using a form, that the transferred transfer data will be
stored and, if necessary, used in further procedures. Unfortunately,
this notice was missing in the current case of the petitioner, so that
she was not informed about the further processing for another
purpose in accordance with Art. 13 (3) GDPR. The Higher Regional
Court announced that the reference to a possible use of the transfer
data was also missing in other procedures for payment requests
that were made in a period of a few months after the

June 2018 sent. With noticing the error
What should I do?

the payment requests were immediately supplemented with the

The state justice fund has
Point out to those liable for costs

reference. With regard to the debtors for whom the information had

that after transfers the account

not been provided in the form, the OLG Dresden requested the LJK

details are stored and, if necessary,

to provide information in accordance with Art. 13 (3) GDPR before

also in further procedures

using the transmitted bank data for other purposes, such as

be used.

enforcement.

74 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

2.2.10 Vaccination
advertising by the Ministry of Social Affairs
One petitioner contacted my authority during the reporting period

de, because he feared that the Saxon State Ministry for Social
Affairs and Social Cohesion (SMS) was misusing personal data
for "vaccination advertising in the Erzgebirge district" and
requested that this be checked. In his complaint, he referred to
an interview with the “Freie Presse” on August 24, 2021. In it,
Minister of State Petra Köpping said that, according to a study
by the Technical University of Dresden, younger AfD voters with
low incomes in particular reject the vaccination. These should
now be specifically addressed.
With regard to “vaccination advertising in the Erzgebirge district”,
the SMS reports that the Office for Strategic Advice Hitschfeld in
Leipzig has been commissioned to develop an information
campaign aimed specifically at the population groups in the
Erzgebirge district that are particularly skeptical about vaccination.
No personal data was made available to the company for this purpose.
The relevant population groups have already been identified in
a microgeographical analysis. The basis was the study "Covid-19
in Saxony" by the Mercator Forum Migration and Democracy
(MIDEM). Based on the order results, SMS had information
flyers delivered via Deutsche Post to entire delivery districts of
specific municipalities in the Erzgebirge district.
A use of personal data did not take place.
More information:

The above study is posted on the MIDEM website.

ÿ www.forum-midem.de

2.2.11 Information from archived population
register data
ÿ SächsArchivG

My authority received an inquiry as to whether the requirements for
information on population register data had changed according to their

Archiving (once the retention period has expired) after

Activity Report 2021

| 75

Machine Translated by Google

Archive or continue to determine according to reporting rights. While

The latter in accordance with Article 44 of the Federal Registration
Act (BMG) enables so-called simple registration information without
further requirements, in the case of the former until the expiry of
protection periods (which, in accordance with Article 10, Paragraph 1
of the Archives Act for the Free State of Saxony {SächsArchivG}, are
between 10 and 100 years can) no information possible.
This protection period can be shortened with consent or according to
§ 10 Para. 5 SächsArchivG, but the latter is mandatory
legitimate interests that outweigh the legitimate interests of the person
to whom the archive material relates.
Section 11 (5) of the Federal Archives Act contains a regulation
according to which protection periods do not apply to federal archive
material if it consists of documents that were already open to
information access under an Information Access Act before they
were handed over to the Federal Archives. On the one hand, the
wording “Information Access Act” does not include the Federal
Registration Act. On the other hand, the BArchG does not apply to
Saxon registration registers, and the SächsArchivG does not contain
any
Regulation comparable to Section 11 (5) No. 2 BArchG.
The Saxon State Ministry of the Interior, which was asked for an
opinion, informed my authority that the result of the archiving of
registration data is actually an additional threshold for information
that was not originally provided for under § 44 BMG for records
see was.

2.3 Consent questions 2.3.1
Data protection in offender-victim mediation
ÿ Section 155 (2) StPO

At the beginning of last year, a petitioner contacted my authority with
a complaint that her statements made as part of a victim-offender
mediation (TOA) were sent by the social service of the judiciary to
the social-psychiatric service of the local health authority responsible
for the petitioner were disclosed, although the petitioner

76 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

repeatedly mentioned to the employee responsible that she
did not want any contact with the social psychiatric service.
Nevertheless, after the interview within the framework of the
TOA, the petitioner had received a telephone call from the
social psychiatric service of the health department, in which
their statements in the context of the TOA were addressed.
My authority asked the social service of the judiciary, which is
set up at the regional court (LG) and whose employees are
subject to the supervision of the president of the LG, to
comment. I pointed out that according to § 155 b paragraph 2
sentence 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (StPO), the
body commissioned to carry out the TOA - in the case of adult
suspects the social service of the judiciary, commissioned by
the public prosecutor (StA) - personal data only may process,
insofar as this is necessary for the implementation of the TOA
or the compensation for damage and the data subject has
consented.
The provision is intended to ensure that the
The processing of personal data required by the TOA does
not take place without the will of the persons concerned
(injured persons as well as suspected perpetrators). The
processing of personal data also includes the transmission of
this data to third parties. The consent of the person concerned
is therefore not only required for data collection, but also for
data transmission. In the present case, the petitioner had
expressly opposed the transmission of information concerning
her to the health department.
Without the consent of the person concerned, the body
commissioned to carry out the TOA – i.e. the social service of
the judiciary – may only report to the StA or the court to the
required extent in accordance with Section 155 (2) sentence
3 StPO after completion of the activity. The fact that reports
are only to be made “to the extent necessary” means that the
social service itself only discloses procedurally relevant
information to the public prosecutor or the court, but not all of it
that suspected perpetrators or injured persons have disclosed
within the scope of the TOA.

Activity Report 2021

| 77

Machine Translated by Google

This strict earmarking of data processing is intended to
Promote willingness to TOA because they give those involved the
It will make it easier for the decision to disclose itself to the body
responsible for its implementation, also with regard to
circumstances in which secrecy is fundamentally a concern
special interest exists.

In the present case, the social service of the judiciary was not
commissioned by the StA to transmit specific information about
the petitioner (of which the StA was not even aware) to the social
psychiatric service of the health department. Section 13 (2) in
conjunction with Section 17 No. 3 of the Introductory Act to the
Courts Constitution Act (EGGVG) could not justify the transmission
by the social service either. Only the courts and the

StA to. If statements are made within the scope of the TOA which
the social service of the judiciary sees as a (concrete) danger to
public safety, the social service of the judiciary can inform the
police authorities of an acute risk situation.

In the present case there was no legal basis for the transmission
of the information from the TOA concerning the petitioner to the
social psychiatric service of the health authority; the transmission
violated data protection regulations. The president of the regional
court responsible here took the opportunity to instruct the
employees of the social service of the judiciary at the regional
court about the application of data protection regulations for the
processing of orders for the TOA, and asked my authority for
appropriate expert advice.

Validity of the GDPR for TOA positions
First of all, it had to be clarified whether TOA bodies are subject
to the scope of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
I am of the opinion that TOA bodies operate within the scope of
the GDPR. Even if one takes the view that the TOA, with its
anchoring in the

78 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

Since the Code of Criminal Procedure serves criminal prosecution in
the broadest sense and thus falls within the scope of Directive (EU)
2016/680 (JI Directive), the TOA procedure relies from the outset on
the voluntary cooperation of those involved and is therefore similar to
the GDPR .
Compulsory enforcement of this measure, which the directive issuer
sees as a matter of principle when performing tasks within the
framework of the JI Directive, is out of the question because the TOA
is required to be voluntary by law. In addition, there is the fact that
when the order to carry out the TOA is issued, the investigative
procedure pursuant to Section 153a Paragraph 1 Sentence 1, Sentence
2 No. 5 StPO is temporarily suspended, i.e. no criminal prosecution
takes place during the TOA.

But the TOA office also occupies a certain special position in the scope
of the GDPR, since it is neither clearly a processor nor a person
responsible for the data
protective sense can be considered.
A prerequisite for order processing within the meaning of Article 4 No.
8 GDPR is that the order processor processes personal data on behalf
of and on the instructions of the client. Although the social service of
the judiciary is commissioned by the StA or the court to carry out the
TOA procedure, the TOA office is not sufficiently bound by instructions.
In the case of order processing, the client determines the type of
processing. The processor receives a "route", i.e. forward, from the
person responsible

gave or just instructions what exactly he has to do. However, the TOA
office is not subject to the instructions of the StA or the court with
regard to the implementation of its task. With § 155 b paragraph 2
sentence 2 StPO, the legislator assumes that, in addition to those of
the StA and the court
communicated personal data, further personal information is only
collected in the context of the implementation of the TOA by the
responsible body.
In order to be able to do justice to their task and presumed perpetrators
and victims an understanding, one

Activity Report 2021

| 79

Machine Translated by Google

In order to enable compensation, the TOA office will regularly have
to find out other (living) circumstances of those involved that have
not yet been determined
and court or StA are unknown.
Another feature of order processing is the right of the person
responsible vis-à-vis the order processor to determine the deletion
of the data processed in the order or their return. This is already
opposed to this in the TOA by Section 155 b (4) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, which only applies to the TOA office, but not
to the StA or the court
contains. In addition, the person concerned can restrict their
consent in accordance with Section 155 b (2) sentence 2 StPO,
so that the reporting obligation of the TOA office (even to the
Public Prosecutor or the court) is limited. The TOA office thus acts
at least partly under its own legal responsibility.
However, the TOA office does not act as its own controller within
the meaning of Art. 4 No. 7 GDPR; she doesn't decide
only about the means and purposes of data processing, but is
commissioned to fulfill a specific task in accordance with the legal
requirements. The TOA is the responsibility of the social service
of the judiciary, which is integrated into the administrative structure
at the respective regional court and is therefore a responsible but
dependent body of the regional court.

TOA office obtains the consent of the person concerned
As a result, the question arose as to who had the consent of the
Obtain data subject according to § 155 b Abs. 2 Satz 2 StPO

has – the body commissioned with the TOA (the TOA body at the
social service of the judiciary), the regional court where the social
service is set up, or the commissioning body (StA or court)?

In fact, consent must be obtained from the TOA body. In
accordance with the administrative regulation for offender-victim
compensation (VwV TOA), the mediation center immediately
contacts the parties involved after being commissioned by the
public prosecutor or the court and clarifies their willingness to carry
out the TOA. This already starts the examination of the suitability of the

80 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

Process for a TOA according to § 155 a StPO (the conflicting
will of the injured party precludes suitability) is the responsibility
of the TOA office. There is no legal objection to this, because
the law does not regulate how the suitability test is to be carried
out. However, if the TOA office already discusses the suitability
of the matter for the TOA with the parties involved, it is also
responsible for obtaining the required consent under Section
155 b (2) sentence 2 StPO due to this factual proximity. In
addition, Art. 4 No. 11 GDPR requires that the consent must be
given in an informed manner, i.e. the data subject must be
informed comprehensively and sensibly about the data
processing so that the consent can be formulated in a sufficiently
specific - or correspondingly limited - way. But since neither the
StA nor the court have insight into the implementation of the
TOA, only the TOA office can only
What should I do?
The body responsible for the
TOA acts within the scope of

there an "informed" and thus legally effective one

the GDPR.

consent to be obtained. This is also the only solution that makes

You must obtain the consent

sense with regard to the effect of consent. Because the consent

of those involved in the processing
of your data. Without

of the person concerned determines the scope of the processing

After completion of the activity,

of their data in the TOA and – by way of transmission – beyond

the commissioned TOA office may

the TOA. However, data processed in the TOA is only available

only give the consent of the person
concerned and only if necessary
report to such an extent to the StA

to the TOA office, so that only this office is able to implement
the consent and restrict the processing accordingly.

or the court.

2.3.2 Internet publication of
competition results in youth golf
ÿ Article 5 (2) GDPR, Article 6 (1) GDPR, Article 14 GDPR, Article 17 GDPR

A citizen who is a golf enthusiast had set himself the task of
collecting all the results of competitions and tournaments from
youth golf and presenting them in one website. There he also
created a player portrait for each youth player and assigned an
individual rank to each one. After registering in a protected area,
he offered parents and others interested in golf not only extended

Activity Report 2021

| 81

Machine Translated by Google

There is also the option of adding a picture of the young golfer to the
player portrait.
Assertion of a right to erasure of personal publications

After a father obviously with the one from the side berei
About the determined ranking value for his two underage sons, he first
tried to delete all data concerning his children with reference to Art. 17
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which the person responsible
with reference to the publicity of the held tournaments and competitions.
As a last resort, the parent with custody turned to my authority and asked
me for help in enforcing this

site operator.

Consent Requirement
It is true that sporting competitions are generally held in public, so that a
tournament host or event organizer is also entitled to present the results
on their website. Sports competitions are always carried out on the basis
of sport-related competition regulations. In order to take part, the
respective athlete must be registered in the license register of the sports
association in advance, and by taking part in the competition, the parents
also give their consent to the processing of their children's data.

In the present case, however, the site operator was unable to produce
the consent of the legal guardians. Rather, he obtained the game data
and thus also information about the participating young athletes from both
publicly available result lists and from the tournament association

tournament data sent to him by organizers. So could
he only refers to the legitimate interests of Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter f GDPR.
According to this, the processing is only lawful if it is used to protect the
legitimate interest
food of the person responsible or a third party is required

82 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

is provided not the interests or fundamental rights and reason
freedoms of the data subject, which require the protection of personal
data, prevail, especially if
these are children.

Hobby as legitimate interest?
The person responsible explained his actions to me with a "hobby
project" and drew attention to the possibility of comparing the performance
of the individual players. However, his interest differs from that of a pure
tournament organiser/host, who wants to draw attention to himself and
his event with the presentation of the results and wants to promote
interest in golf. In addition, the organizers

or organizers cannot find a rank or point value expressing the respective
playing strength. Based on this, my authority saw no need or necessity
to offer interested website visitors a player portrait with an individual
ranking value in addition to the results of the organizing clubs and sports
associations that can be called up on the Internet. In addition, the person
responsible placed the information he had collected in new contexts.

The special protection of children
The inadmissibility of data processing becomes even clearer when the
mutual interests are weighed. From the textual formulation it is already
clear that
that the protection of children has a high priority.
The legislator has also emphasized this special protection in the recitals
(recital 38 to the GDPR). This is only opposed to the hobbyist interest of
the site operator. In the case of an Internet publication, it is particularly
important that the personal data of the children and youth players
presented is publicly accessible to everyone and can be distributed
practically without limits via the Internet. Particularly problematic in the
case presented was the individual rank value, which according to

Activity Report 2021

| 83

Machine Translated by Google

position of the person responsible should express the playing
strength of the respective player and thus ultimately enable
comparability and ranking. If you only take the different pitch or
weather conditions, I doubt that an objective comparison value
that expresses performance can be determined at all, especially
since not every youth player took part in all events and
tournaments and the result lists presented were sometimes
incomplete.
Ultimately, the method used to determine the point value also
remained completely opaque. The page FAQ contained only
very general information on the criteria that were included.
summary
In order for the competition results of children and youth golfers
to be presented in compliance with data protection regulations,
the responsible website operator would have had to show the
consent of the legal guardian (Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter a in
conjunction with Art. 7 and Art. 4 No. 11 GDPR). , as well as
for the player portraits (first name, surname, photo, age group,
ranking). After my authority pointed this out and he obviously
had no consent, he took the website offline and also proved to
my authority that all player-related personal data of the children
What should I do?

and young people had been deleted. did

Internet presences operated as a
hobby are also included, provided
they are not exclusively personal or

actually, the controller had the data subjects

family-related – cf.

not even about their inclusion on his website

Art. 2 para. 2 letter c GDPR

– under the scope of the GDPR. This
also applies if information is partly

bid informed (Article 14 GDPR).
In addition, a person responsible is always obliged to prove
that the personal data processed by him/her are processed in

have been compiled from
generally accessible sources.

a lawful manner (accountability, Art. 5 Para. 2 DSGVO). In the

Are third

case of processing based on consent, this requires that the

Persons and minors are affected,

person responsible has this (in writing) and that it is

consent is required, especially if
images are to be distributed.

their content also to the data protection law

specifications oriented.

84 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

2.4 Sensitive
Data, Special
Categories of Personal Data
2.4.1 Corona at school
ÿ Art. 6 GDPR, SächsCoronaSchutzVO, SchulKitaCoVO

My authority received numerous submissions in connection with
the regulation in the Saxon Corona Protection Ordinance
(SächsCoronaSchVO) and in the later school-specific school
and daycare Corona Ordinance (SchulKitaCoVO) of the Free

State of Saxony, according to which access to school is only permitted with
testing is permitted. The complaints related to testing in class
groups and the resulting possibility of mutual knowledge of the
test results. As a result, however, my authority had no objections
to carrying out these tests.
If the test result is positive, the person who tested positive must
isolate themselves immediately; underage pupils
Students are excluded from the rest of the class
separate and collect from the person with custody.
This is absolutely necessary and the inevitably associated
processing of personal data is lawful accordingly. In this context,
it makes no difference whether a positive test result is already
determined in the test in the class association.

Decision OVG Bautzen:

With a decision of April 9, 2021 (Ref.: 3 B 114/21), the Saxon

ÿ sdb.de/tb2106

Higher Administrative Court (OVG) issued a statement on related
data protection issues and the compatibility of the test regulation
with the GDPR. In this decision, based on Art. 6 and 9 GDPR,
the OVG examines the disputed regulation in the
SächsCoronaSchVO of a sufficient legal basis for authorization

Art. 6 Para. 1 Sentence 1 Letters c and e GDPR. Also standing

Art. 9 Para. 1 GDPR does not prevent the collection of personal
data. According to Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter h GDPR, paragraph 1 of
the provision does not apply, among other things, if

Activity Report 2021

| 85

Machine Translated by Google

if the processing is for health care purposes
- as here - is required.
The SächsCoronaSchVO (or later the SchulKitaCoVO) also provided for
the obligation to wear a medical face mask (surgical mask), an FFP2
mask or a comparable breathing mask. You could be exempted from this
obligation with a medical certificate. Also

my agency received numerous petitions on this. Included

was the practice that can often be observed that headmasters only At
initially not covered by the regulations. This was finally "adapted to
practice" and contained these content-related requirements for the
certificates. After it was determined that anyone who has access to these
certificates has to maintain secrecy about the health data contained
therein

I have no serious concerns.
There were also other petitions to document this At
test. The SächsCoronaSchVO initially left a credible
making by granting inspection is sufficient.
The copy, which was nevertheless often made, was therefore permissible
at most with consent. Here, too, an authorization was finally included in
the SchulKitaCoVO to make an analogue or digital copy of the medical
certificate for exemption and to keep it. This must be secured against
unauthorized access and deleted or destroyed immediately after the
period for which the certificate is valid has expired, but no later than the
end of 2022.

Finally, with the enabling of a corona vaccination for young people from
the age of 12, this was included in the SchulKitaCoVO as an exception
to the mandatory test.
Here, too, initially only inspection of the convalescent or vaccination
certificate was regulated, despite experience with the certificates for
mask exemption; however, there is no corresponding documentation.
The result of this would have been that without the appropriate consent,
this evidence would have been presented again for each test.

86 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

the must. My predecessor in office therefore strongly
suggested to the legislator that a corresponding regulation
be made here as well. In the end, that was agreed.
Schools can now record and document the day on which
inspection of the vaccination or recovery certificate was
granted.

2.4.2 Biometric access
control in leisure facilities
ÿ Art. 6 (1) b and f GDPR, Art. 9 (1) and (2) f GDPR,
Art. 22 GDPR

A large leisure facility had introduced a mandatory
biometric access control system based on face recognition
to speed up its admission control. The long-term
customers had received a corresponding information
letter in which they were given the no alternative
change of the access control system had been
communicated. On their next visit to the facility, a digital
recording of them would be taken at the turnstile and
then stored (actually only as a non-recalculated template).
From then on, at each further visit, a new recording
would be made and compared with the first recording.
Insofar as customers had complained to the operator of
the leisure facility in this regard, the legality of the
associated processing of personal data was upheld with
Art. 6 Para. 1 Letters b and f General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) on the one hand and Art. 9 Para. f
GDPR justified on the other hand.
examination of the facts
The person responsible has the processing personal
ner data of his regular customers rightly first

based on Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter b GDPR (performance of
a contract concluded with the data subject) and also
correctly recognized that he - because of the processing bio
metric data - also a right

based on Art. 9 GDPR required. his assessment,

Activity Report 2021

| 87

Machine Translated by Google

in this respect referred to Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter f GDPR

can, but was wrong.
According to this provision, the processing of biometric data
would be permissible if it is necessary for the assertion, exercise
or defense of legal claims or for court actions in the context of
their judicial work. In the present case, however, these
requirements were not met; the justification of the person
responsible that the biometric access control system can be
used to effectively rule out the repeated attempts at fraud with
the season tickets (use by third parties despite the exclusion of
transferability) and to be able to use such an identity check to
protect his contractual claims in the run-up to a possible legal
dispute,
was understandable, but not of Art. 9 para. 2
Letter f DSGVO covered.
A legal conflict, Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter f GDPR
could be applied does not already exist at the time the contract
is concluded or if the contractual relationship is undisturbed.
Only if there are irregularities in the fulfillment of the contract,
for example if one of the contracting parties does not fulfill his
obligations in this regard, especially if there is a suspicion of
abuse, and as a result
Legal dispute arises in which the person responsible
must assert or defend claims, this provision applies. This results
both from the wording of the provision itself, from recital 52 (last
sentence), and from the relevant commentary literature.
The rights referred to in Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter f GDPR

Although claims can arise from contractual regulations, for
example from damaging actions leading to claims for damages,
the existence of such a legal relationship alone is not sufficient
to justify the processing of biometric data.
Rather, this must first have resulted in a conflict that forces the
claimant to take procedural action to enforce the claim (Kuhling/
Buchner/Weisert, 3rd edition 2020, DS-GVO Art. 9 No. 84). Only

88 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter f GDPR can be used to process data previously
processed on another legal basis, for example on the basis of consent,
in accordance with Art. 9 Para. 1 GDPR also to enforce these legal claims

che to use.
Art. 9 (2) (f) GDPR covers the use of special categories when enforcing
such legal claims, i.e. in the context of the respective dispute, but does
not create a legal basis for their processing in the underlying legal or
contractual relationship. Because then processing in this way would be
justifiable in any contractual relationship - after all, there can be
disruptions and abusive actions in every contract. If the legislator had
actually intended this, he would have had an Art. 6 para.

1 letter b GDPR comparable permission in
Art. 9 GDPR. The privacy reason
Instead, the regulation differentiates conceptually but clearly between the
processing of a contractual relationship (Article 6 (1) (b) GDPR) and the
enforcement of claims (Article 9 (2) (f) GDPR). It is therefore not justifiable
to use the exception in Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter f GDPR when processing
sensitive data to fulfill contractual relationships. The inclusion of out-ofcourt dispute resolution in recital 52 sentence 3 is reinforced in view of
the wording there

the requirement of a legal conflict. Should be sensitive

If the data becomes the subject of the contract, an independent exception
is required, for example consent in accordance with Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter
a GDPR.
Face recognition only with consent
It follows from all of the above that the application scenario presented,
specifically the use of a biometric procedure to fulfill the contract (here:
granting access), cannot be based on Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter f GDPR. As a
result, the solution to the processing problem is already shown. Securing
access for permanent

Activity Report 2021

| 89

Machine Translated by Google

Customers by means of face recognition is (only) possible if the consent
of the persons concerned has been obtained and is thus based on Art.
9 Para. 2 Letter a DSGVO
becomes.

In order for such consent to actually be given voluntarily, detailed
information is required
the responsible on the one hand and also one without the
Processing of biometric data coming from Alterna
tive for access control on the other hand. In addition, the
Responsible in relation to the granting of consent in the obligation to
provide evidence (Article 7 (1) GDPR).
I do not share the irrelevant objection that the consent solution is difficult
to implement, nor do I share the objection that the organizational effort
in the event that consent is not granted or in the event of a revocation is
technically, personnel and financially unfeasible. In any case, alternative
solutions must be planned and made available in the event of a system
failure of the biometric access control. If consent is revoked, it should be
possible to block the customer concerned in the reference database or
remove the template assigned to him with just a few clicks.

What should I do?

For the sake of completeness, Art. 22 GDPR – Automated decisions in

The use of a biometric

individual cases (here: granting access) – should also be referred to.

face recognition method

According to Art. 22 Para. 4 GDPR, such decisions may not be based

9 para. 2 lit.

on special categories of personal data according to Art. 9 Para.

1 GDPR, unless the data subject has consented to this or a substantial
f DSGVO are supported.
The person in charge has one

to obtain the explicit
consent of the persons
concerned.

90 |

public interest can be asserted. In any case, Art. 9 (2) (f) GDPR is not
mentioned in the relevant exceptions.

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

2.4.3 Engagement of an
external expert by a social
security authority
ÿ SGB X

The transmission of the applicant's documents to an institution
that acts as an expert on the part of the competent authority
in accordance with Section 21 of the Tenth Book of the Social
Code (SGB X) is permitted under data protection law.
The commissioning of an external expert, in this case to
prepare an opinion from a health care provider on an application
procedure pending at the authority, by the competent authority
is not dependent on the consent of the applicant having to be
obtained in advance, but falls within the decision-making
authority of the authority. The same applies if the administrative
procedure is pending before a court.
The selection decision, i.e. which external expert the authority
specifically selects as an expert to make a decision on the
application, is not subject to the applicant’s consent
requirement, but falls within
the discretion of the authority.

For a meaningful opinion from the medical officer, I also
consider it permissible for the external expert to submit the
documents consulted to the authority for inspection and
therefore to be sent, since otherwise it is not possible to draw
up an expert opinion - especially one that will stand up in court.
The expert, as a helper and adviser to the authority, has the
task of examining facts to be determined and assessed by the
authority. The expert must be impartial, there may be no
grounds for exclusion or partiality.
He must also have special expertise. The reports obtained in
the administrative procedure are also to be used in the social
court procedure, since they are not private reports (so
Vogelgesang overall in: Hauck/Noftz commentary on SGB X §
21 marginal no. 18).

Activity Report 2021

| 91

Machine Translated by Google

2.4.4 Measles Protection Act:
Abnormalities in medical certificates
ÿ GDPR, IfSG, StGB

From the inquiries and complaints I have received regarding
measles protection, it can be inferred that the management
of day care centers or other community facilities are
increasingly being presented with so-called certificates of
incapacity to vaccinate as proof of adequate vaccination
protection against measles.
In the 2020 activity report (2.2.9, page 589), my predecessor
had already commented on the Measles Protection Act.
At that time there were several cases in which parents had
complained that the management of the day care centers
copied proof of sufficient vaccination protection in order to
add a document to the files. As stated, this was inadmissible.
The Infection Protection Act (IfSG) regulates compulsory
vaccination against measles. If a child attends a community
facility within the meaning of Section 33 No. 1 to 3 IfSG, e.g.
a day-care center or school, then according to Section 20
(9) IfSG, evidence must be presented to the management
of the facility that there is adequate vaccination protection
against measles. This proof can be in the form of vaccination
documentation (vaccination card or medical certificate), a
medical certificate of immunity against measles or the
existence of a medical contraindication or confirmation from
a government agency or the management of another
institution that the proof has already been provided, be led.
In my opinion, the vaccination card or a doctor's certificate
may not be copied for data protection reasons, as these
contain data other than that required by law - the principle
of data minimization. § 20 paragraph 9 IfSG only requires
the submission of proof. Therefore, as explained in the
activity report mentioned above, copying of the evidence is
not permitted.
The "vaccination certificate" is a medical certificate that
certifies that in

92 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

there is a permanent "vaccination ban" of any kind on the affected child
due to a medical contraindication. A vaccination certificate can be a
reference point for a courtesy certificate.

The Saxon State Ministry for Social Affairs and Society
Social Cohesion (SMS) received the technical supervisory instruction
(decree) on the implementation of the Measles Protection Act for the
state in a letter dated September 7, 2021

Directorate of Saxony and the health authorities of the Free State
Saxony enacted. The appendix to this decree states that the certificate
does not have to be recognized if the management of the facility has
indications that it could be a courtesy certificate or if there are other
justified doubts as to the correctness of the certificate. This can be the
case, for example, in the case of a blanket denial of any vaccination
suitability with reference to an unspecified contraindication.

More information:

On the joint website of the Federal Ministry

ÿ www.masernschutz.de

for health with other public institutions
under the keyword "Heads of facilities, medical profession including
public health service" to the
Question "How to prevent incorrect vaccination documents/certificates
from being used?"
"Documents in another language, obviously forged documents or
obvious courtesy at
tests do not have to be recognised. In these cases is
notify the health department. The issuance and use of incorrect
health certificates for submission to an authority is punishable
under Sections 278 and 279 of the Criminal Code (StGB). This
also includes vaccination documentation. The issuing physicians
also face consequences under professional law.”

(www.masernschutz.de/leitungen-und-aerzteschaft.html)

In my opinion, in these cases § 20 Paragraph 9 Clause 4 IfSG applies,
since the proof was not provided. The
The health authorities are to be notified and personal information is to be
transmitted.

Activity Report 2021

| 93

Machine Translated by Google

What should I do?

In the meantime, the legislature has reacted to the compliance

There are doubts about the authenticity

certificates and when the IfSG was amended by the

or the correctness of the content of

Law of December 10, 2021 § 20 para. 9 to 12 new

the submitted proof of sufficient

drafted and a paragraph 9a inserted. It is regulated, as in the

vaccination protection against measles,
the management of the facility
according to § 20 para.
9 sentence 2 IfSG to notify the
responsible health authority
immediately. In this case, personal
data must also be transmitted.

case of doubts about the authenticity or correctness of the content
of the evidence is to be proceeded. According to § 20 paragraph 12 IfSG

For example, the health department has the option of asking
people who are cared for in community facilities to provide proof
in accordance with paragraph 9 sentence 1 IfSG
to submit.

2.4.5 Use of police officers for home
quarantine checks
ÿ GDPR, IfSG, IfSGZuVO

In early 2021, a petitioner contacted my authority and
requested the use of police officers for the control

to check its secretion. At the time of the check, he was in isolation
(home quarantine) as a category 1 contact person for a person
suffering from Covid-19. During his seclusion he was several times
been controlled. One of the control teams consisted of
two police officers. The complainant feared
that the health department had passed on his personal data or
health data to the police and asked me to check this.

The public health department of the district-free city confirmed
that the control measures had been carried out on the petitioner
and reported that the police officers within the framework of the office
were seconded to the municipality during the period in question.
They were used in the implementation of control measures like
municipal officials. They used civilian vehicles for the control
actions. They appeared in uniform.
The persons to be controlled were chosen at random. In the
present case, this led to the checks being carried out at the
petitioner's premises in quick succession.
The authority to order domestic quarantine and to check whether
this is being observed results from Section 28

94 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

Paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Infection Protection Act (IfSG) in
conjunction with Section 30 Paragraph 1 Clause 2, Section 16
Paragraph 2 IfSG. Accordingly, the competent authority must take
the necessary (infection) protection measures to the extent and for
as long as it is necessary to prevent the spread of communicable diseases.
The districts and independent cities are according to § 1 Infek

tion Protection Act - Competence Ordinance (IfSGZuVO) the
responsible authorities.
The health department informs according to § 27 paragraph 1 IfSG ins

particularly in the cases of Section 25 (1) immediately the
competent authorities and transmits to them the information
required to fulfill their tasks. The information about who is in
quarantine at home could therefore be transmitted from the health
department to the public order office of the district-free city. The
purpose of the legal basis also includes monitoring the ordered
quarantine. According to Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter e,

Para. 3, Art. 9 Para. 2 Letter i GDPR permissible, as there is a
legal basis for this in the IfSG.
What should I do?

The use of the police officers during the secondment is carried out

It must be ensured that police
officers who are deployed as part

by the district-free city. The police officers perform tasks of the

of a delegation from a district-free

district-free city. During the secondment, the police officers do not

city do not transmit any personal data

perform any tasks of the police enforcement service. In doing so,

to the police enforcement service
without a legal basis.

no data may be "flown" to the police enforcement service, unless
there are statutory transmission bases.

2.4.6 Transmission of personal
data by rescue control centers to
the police for the purpose of criminal prosecuti
ÿ SächsBRKG

A rescue association described to my authority that courts, public
prosecutors and, on their behalf, police stations often required
information in connection with criminal investigations as to which
doctors and which non-medical staff were working at be

agreed to be involved in order to witness them

Activity Report 2021

| 95

Machine Translated by Google

hear. In addition, there were inquiries about assignments; for example,
whether there was an operation due to bodily harm on a certain day at a
certain time and
who was treated as a patient or whether a be
right person was treated as a patient.
The Saxon State Office contacted by my authority
The Ministry of the Interior (SMI) reported that the transmission of
personal data, which the rescue coordination centers process as part of
their tasks under the Saxon law on fire protection, rescue services and
disaster control (SächsBRKG), to the police for the purpose of criminal
prosecution is inadmissible. The rescue coordination centers collect the
data in accordance with Section 72 (1) SächsBRKG. Transmission of the
data for other purposes, including criminal prosecution under Section 161
of the Code of Criminal Procedure (StPO), is excluded by Section 72 (2)
SächsBRKG. This legal regulation is also appropriate, since the personal
data of those cared for in the context of an emergency service operation
are patient data. This only applies if there is a corresponding declaration
of release from confidentiality.

The rescue coordination center does not have access to the personal
data of employees involved in a rescue service operation for police
purposes. According to Section 28, Paragraph 2, Clause 2 of the
SächsBRKG, it is the responsibility of the statutory health insurance
companies to draw up the duty rosters for emergency medical services.
On the other hand, the service providers according to Section 31 (1)
sentence 2 SächsBRKG or the locally responsible rescue service
providers (county, district-free city or rescue association) draw up the
duty rosters for the needs-based staffing of the rescue equipment. In this
respect, the police should contact the person responsible for human
resources for information, for whom the general data protection regulations
for handling employee data apply.

96 |

Chapter 2

Machine Translated by Google

3 rights of data subjects

3.1 Specific
Obligations of the Controller
3.1.1 Data protection information
for citizens' requests
ÿ Article 13 GDPR

The initiators of a citizens' initiative asked in what form the information
obligations when collecting personal data according to Article 13 of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) can be fulfilled. They pointed
out that corresponding signature lists do not offer unlimited space for
additional information.

The Saxon State Office contacted by my authority
nisterium des Interiors (SMI) first referred to the note
se on data protection in the 2019 local elections
Comparable topic of collecting supportive signatures for election
proposals had been recommended,
the information sheet on data protection in the area of the municipal association

administration, in which the signature lists are laid out, to be posted and
to offer further copies to take away.
When asked, the SMI also agreed with me that it is sufficient to provide
the information sheet separately in paper form
and also to availability on the internet
point out (insofar as the persons of trust want to create such a website).
In addition to a reading copy, there should be several copies to take
away. Appropriate notice should be given. A "up

Activity Report 2021

| 97

Machine Translated by Google

urge" of the info sheet to the effect that this must be given to everyone
before signing, is not he
conducive.

3.1.2 Video Surveillance
Information Obligations:
Purpose and Legitimate Interests
ÿ Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter f GDPR, Art. 13 GDPR

In the course of supervisory dealings with video surveillance systems,
the fulfillment of the information obligations under Article 13 of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is also a regular issue. In
the 2019 activity report, my predecessor in office presented the two-stage
information concept recommended by the German supervisory authorities
and also shared by the European Data Protection Committee under point
3.1.1 (page 71ff.).

The differentiation between the purpose of the data processing to be
stated under Article 13 (1) (c) GDPR on the one hand and the legitimate
interests under Article 13 (1) (d) GDPR regularly causes practical problems

GDPR on the other hand.

In fact, both pieces of information are difficult to tell apart
to delimit. The commentary literature mostly does not go into a distinction
and happily uses relevant formulation examples both for the purpose of
data processing and for the interests pursued with the processing. Since,
as is well known, video surveillance is not specifically regulated in the
General Data Protection Regulation, there are no special specifications
or examples for the fulfillment of the information obligations for this area
of application anyway.

The problem is at least touched upon by Bäcker (Kuhling/Buchner, 3rd
edition 2020, DS-GVO Art. 13 No. 27), who explains that the information
obligation under Art. 13 para.
1 letter d GDPR partly with the obligation from Art. 13 para.
1 letter c GDPR overlaps, since in the cases of Art. 6
Paragraph 1 letter f GDPR the legitimate interest at the same time

98 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

forms the purpose of the data processing. Their independent content
results from the fact that a legitimate interest of the person responsible
or a third party only justifies data processing if it outweighs the conflicting
interests and rights of the person concerned. According to Art. 13 (1) (d)
GDPR, the person responsible is obliged to present the relevant aspects
for this balancing of interests in such a way that the data subject can
understand the balancing and, if necessary, raise substantiated
objections against it.

OH video surveillance:
ÿ sdb.de/tb2107

Statements on this topic can be found in the video surveillance guide
of the data protection conference
under points 2.1 and 2.2.1:
“Before a video camera is activated, the purpose of the
video surveillance must be clearly identified and defined for
each processing operation. Video surveillance can be used, for
example, to protect against break-ins, theft, vandalism (property
protection) or attacks (personal protection). […] Therefore, if the
video surveillance is intended to protect against burglaries, theft
or vandalism, this can generally be seen as a legitimate interest.
The same applies to interests such as preserving evidence for
enforcing legal claims, preventing fraud, misuse of services or

money laundering.”

In the same way, the EDPB Guidelines 3/2019 on the processing of
EDSA Guidelines 3/2019: ÿ
sdb.de/tb2108

personal data by video devices, version 2.0, mix these two terms. In
para. 19 of the paper states:

"The purpose of protecting property from burglary, theft or
vandalism can represent a legitimate interest in video surveillance
if there is an actual risk situation."

In this respect, a conceptual identity is also assumed there. This also
changes with the involvement of in

Activity Report 2021

| 99

Machine Translated by Google

item no. 15 of the guidelines or the examples of purposes listed
in para. 18 made statement that legitimate interests of a person
responsible or a third party are more legal
can be of a physical or immaterial nature, nothing.
"Video surveillance can serve a variety of
purposes, such as protecting property and other assets,
protecting the life and physical integrity of individuals,
gathering evidence to enforce civil claims."

EDPB Guidelines 3/2019 on the processing of personal data by video devices, para. 15

The conceptual meaning of the word purpose - generally
understood as the motive for a targeted activity - does not allow
a clear distinction to be drawn from legitimate interests, rather
this also leads to the assumption that the legitimate interests
are largely congruent.
In practice, against this background, I can only give a rough
recommendation that it should generally be sufficient to choose
a rather general, catchphrase-like statement (overriding goal)
when stating the purpose, while the presentation of the
legitimate interests should then be more specific and detailed
in order to enable the data subjects to understand the weighing
of interests carried out in accordance with Article 6 (1) (f)
GDPR. Ultimately, it is important that the addressees as a
whole, i.e. from both statements together, are aware of the –
legitimate – reason for which the video surveillance system is
being operated. Conceivable indications of purpose would
therefore be, for example, information such as

• Protection of property (burglary, theft, vandalism) •
Personal protection (protection of physical integrity) • Exercise
of the duty of supervision • Exercise of domiciliary rights

100 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

• Traffic monitoring/traffic coordination • Billing (e.g.
when using
parking areas)

while in the case of legitimate interests, further explanations such
as
• Deterrence of potential criminals •
Investigation of criminal offenses/preservation of
evidence • Enforcement of civil claims/
Preservation of
evidence • Securing/monitoring of danger areas •
What should I do?
In order to fulfill the information
obligation, the purposes of the data
processing must be specified. The
purposes of
Data processing on the one hand
and legitimate interests according to

Prevention and prosecution of theft, vandalism
and burglary

• Determination of downtimes (for example on
parking areas)
• Entry and exit control

• Examination of access authorization

Art. 13 Para. 1 Letter d
DSGVO are to be distinguished.
Supports the person in charge

could be made. Insofar as controllers already provide sufficiently
detailed information under the purpose, it should nevertheless also

to legitimate interests, he must also
provide information according to the
regulation.

be legitimate to simply refer to the purpose in the case of legitimate
interests.

3.1.3 Operation of a customer center
by a contractor of the controller
ÿ Art. 13 Para. 1 Letter e GDPR, Art. 28 GDPR

A customer of a funeral home (responsible person) complained
that this was a subcontractor
used as the operator of a "customer center" and there the
would have passed on the customer data required to prepare a
customer account. The data subject also complained that the data
protection information and
- do not indicate the commissioning and data transfer
would have been set forth.
First, as part of the data protection control, my

On the one hand, it had been determined that order processing
within the meaning of Article 28 of the General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) was to be affirmed. The information obligation of

Activity Report 2021

| 101

Machine Translated by Google

responsible to the data subject in accordance with Art.
13(1)(b) GDPR should therefore also have contained
specific information about this (already known) processor,
which, according to the complainant, was not
had been the case.
It was confirmed that data processing processes, such
as the procedure carried out for the complainant to
prepare a customer account, including sending a
registration link to his e-mail address, were not included
in the funeral home's data protection information.
However, this subcontractor was named in other contexts
in the data protection information with full details. It was
shown that it should be commissioned to "carry out and
manage online deregistration and to regulate digital
inheritance". In addition, setting up a “memorial portal” for
the deceased – albeit to be commissioned separately by
the customer – was mentioned as a task for the
subcontractor. The detailed services were to be regarded
as relatively complex and the associated data processing
as multi-layered.
Nevertheless, responsibility remained as a reproachable omission

The missing reference to the fact that the preparation of the
customer account should already be carried out by this very
service provider. In this respect, the declaration was deemed
incomplete within the meaning of Art. 13 Para. 1 Letter e GDPR

value.
However, the activity of the service provider as a contractor
was not concealed in this case, since the corresponding
commissioning for the “implementation and administration
of online deregistration and for the regulation of the digital
inheritance” was agreed with the customer in an individual contract
had been. Nor was any extra or onerous

Data processing with the activity of the contractor
tied together.

Taking into account the overall circumstances, my
authority assessed the lack of granular data protection
notices as not comprehensive. The

102 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

I have completed the process with general information to those
responsible.
What should I do?
I advise those responsible to comply

In general, it can be summed up that customers should better ask more

with their data protection notices

about data processing and services in advance than too little, and as

Art. 13 and 14 GDPR

soon as they have gained clarity, they should also fix desired special

to group processing purposes

features or deviations from the usual contract content with a wording

and to deal with these purposes
in full in each case.

that is accepted by both parties.

Should the data protection information

are not overburdened by a
description of all conceivable
processing variants, the persons

Those responsible should note that turn together
comprehensive or summary representations of processing processes

concerned are also to In

can lead to loss of information. It is also important to map profoundly

information, if necessary, to make

individualized contract designs in the information according to Art. 13

available a supplement or amendment

and 14 DSGVO in a data protection-fair and transparent manner, Art. 5

tailored to the concluded contract.

Para. 1 Letter a
GDPR.

3.1.4 Processor as recipient
according to Article 13 GDPR
So that data subjects can exercise their rights under the GDPR

they need meaningful information about the fact that and how their
personal data is being processed. Therefore, the GDPR provides for
information obligations for those responsible. The recipients of the

to name data from the person responsible.
According to the prevailing opinion, processors are still
"recipients" (Ehmann/Selmayr/Knyrim Art.

13 para. 33; Gola/Franck Art. 13 para. 15; Kühling/Buchner/Bäcker Art.
13 para. 28; Paal/Pauly/Paal Art. 13 para. 18, Art. 4 para. 57; BeckOK
data protectionR/Schmidt-Wudy, 35.

Ed. February 1, 2021, GDPR Art. 14 para. 51), with the result that
they are also exempt from the information obligation under Art. 13 Para. 1
Letter e GDPR are included.
According to Paal/Pauly/Paal DS-GVO Art. 15 para. In principle, there is
a right to choose between "recipients" and "categories of recipients" in
favor of the person responsible.

Activity Report 2021

| 103

Machine Translated by Google

Baker in Kühling/Buchner DS-GVO Art. 15 Rdnr. 16, on the
other hand, states: “If he still or already knows the recipients
of the data, he must name them on request. However, this
can lead to a collision between the
Data protection right of the person concerned to information and

conflicting secrecy interests of the data recipients. If these
confidentiality interests prevail, the person responsible may
(and if necessary must) limit the information to a categorical
description (unlike the previous edition). "The "or" in Art. 15
Para. 1 Letter c DSGVO can only be
difficult to overcome. In case of doubt, I accept the indication
of the category, although “contract processor” is actually very
general and can be anything from document shredders to
letter shops to contract data centers.
Recital 63 seems to support the view that in any case the
What should I do?
In order to create the necessary
transparency, processors must also
be specified by the person responsible
for the proper fulfillment of the
information obligations.

"recipients" are to be informed and that the categories of
recipients are optionally informed
can become.
However, the simple statement “contract processor” will not
be sufficient as a category, so a more precise definition is
required.

3.2 Right to information
3.2.1 Information according to Article 15
GDPR by the bailiff
ÿ Art. 12, 15 GDPR

A petitioner approached my authority with the statement that
a bailiff he was asking for information on processing
processing of his data in accordance with Article 15 of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), had refused the
information on the grounds that this was to be provided by the
local court in whose judicial district he was active.
According to Art. 15 Para. 1 GDPR, the data subject has this

Right to request confirmation from the person responsible as
to whether personal data concerning you

104 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

are processed; if so, she has a right
for information about this personal data and on
Further information.
The local court, which was asked by my authority for an opinion, initially
stated that bailiffs had an independent obligation to provide information
on request under Art.
15 GDPR and corresponding requests for information are to be answered
by the management of the competent district court.

My - contrary - position is as follows: I have always seen
the bailiff, who is an independent enforcement body alongside the
enforcement court (BVerwG, 29.04.1982, Az.: 2 C 33/80), as data

processing or responsible body and since in force
comply with the GDPR as responsible within the meaning of Art. 4

No. 7 GDPR (cf. 19th activity report for the public sector, 04/2017 to
Activity report 2017/2018: ÿ sdb.de/
tb2109

12/2018, page 196). From my point of view, the following considerations
are decisive for this classification.

The bailiff acts independently in the enforcement assigned to him (§ 1
Para. 1 Sentence 1 of the Bailiff Ordinance {GVO}). He keeps an official
seal and business and cash books as well as his own responsibility for
the files. He regulates his business operations at his own dutiful discretion
(§ 29 GVO) and keeps an office at his office at his own expense (§ 30
Para. 1 GVO). The bailiff is obliged to employ office workers at his own
expense, insofar as business operations require it; He is responsible for
their activities (§ 33 Para. 1 GVO). He keeps the files according to §§
38ff. GVO and is responsible for their correct storage and destruction (§
43 GVO). According to § 29 GVO, the bailiff decides on the introduction
of data processing procedures in his office on his own responsibility
(point CI of the administrative regulation on the business instructions for
bailiffs {GVGA} and the GVO); he has when using

Activity Report 2021

| 105

Machine Translated by Google

data processing procedures to ensure compliance with
data protection regulations (point C.XV. of the VwV on
the GVGA and GVO).
The degree of autonomy and personal responsibility
expressed in these provisions when fulfilling his tasks also and especially with regard to aspects of data
protection law - justifies considering the bailiff as the
person responsible, who has the Zwe
The scope and means of processing personal data (Art.
4 No. 7 GDPR) and data subject rights within the meaning
of Art. 13ff. GDPR has to be fulfilled on their own
responsibility. He is not to be regarded as an employee
of the District Court.
If one placed the obligation to fulfill information claims of
affected persons regarding their data processed by the
bailiff with the authority management of the district court,
this led to the absurd situation in terms of data protection
law that the bailiff initially
would have to provide the court with data about the
person concerned that is not available there, which the
court would have to take note of and forward to the
person concerned solely for the purpose of providing
information. This contradicts both the principle of data
minimization (Article 5 (1) (c) GDPR) and the legislator’s
will to initially and permanently assign the processing of
personal information from enforcement contexts
exclusively to the bailiff without court proceedings (see
also § 42a paragraph 3 Saxon Justice Act).
This finding is underlined by the regulations on the access
to files for parties involved in the proceedings, which the
bailiff has to grant and not the (enforcement) court, § 760
Code of Civil Procedure (ZPO), § 42 GVO.
In a decision dated May 20, 1998, Az.: 1 UE 1127/95,
the Hessian Administrative Court naturally assumed that
the bailiff
acts as an independent data processing agency and
corresponding data protection obligations - also

106 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

towards data subjects – has to be fulfilled. The legal situation on which
the decision is based has changed in
substantive-legal point of view by the entry into force of
DSGVO not changed.
In this regard it is worth noting that also
according to the Saxon State Ministry of Justice
and for Democracy, Europe and Equality, the courts
executor in the Free State of Saxony of my data protection law
are subject to public supervision because they are not courts when
carrying out enforcement actions.
The district court was requested by my authority to refrain from the
previous procedure and request information from the bailiffs of this own
What should I do?
Applications addressed to

to be processed responsibly. In the specific case, hit the

bailiffs by data subjects
persons upon request

Bailiffs are obliged to respond to requests for information addressed to

Art. 15 GDPR are through the

them in accordance with Art. 12 and 15 GDPR.

bailiffs themselves

The district court then announced that it had corrected the procedure and

answer that to that extent
Responsible in the sense of

had informed the bailiffs working for the responsible district court

Art. 4 No. 7 GDPR.

accordingly.

3.2.2 Admissibility of data
deletion when returning a defective
hard disk and right to information
ÿ Art. 4 No. 2 GDPR, Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter a GDPR, Art. 15 GDPR

After a complainant bought a laptop in April 2018, he discovered a hard
drive failure within the three-year warranty period. He then sent the hard
drive and the personal data stored on it to the dealer in April 2020,
although the dealer had previously pointed out to him that data backup
was his responsibility as the buyer.

A short time later, the dealer sent the buyer a hard drive that, as it turned
out immediately after the first test, was not his own.

First of all, the buyer tried to obtain information about the whereabouts of
his personal data on the hard drive by means of civil law, and

Activity Report 2021

| 107

Machine Translated by Google

also assert a claim for damages by this means.
Although a civil court decision was imminent, the buyer
felt compelled to (also) contact my authority at the same
time with a data protection complaint. In it, he initially
stated that the hard drive sent to him contained highly
sensitive personal data belonging to a third party neither
a confirmation of the proper deletion of all data nor a
certificate documenting the destruction of the hard drive

dealer received.
court decides
In its decision, the civil court followed the reasoning of
the retailer, who claimed to no longer be in possession of
the hard drive. The hard drive was replaced, the old hard
drive destroyed and the personal data supposedly on it
was therefore not passed on to any third party. The
complaint under data protection law and the civil lawsuit
were based solely on the assumption that the personal
data allegedly present on the hard drive had been
unlawfully disclosed. However, there was a lack of
objective evidence of a data protection violation in this
regard, since the buyer failed to provide proof of access
to the hard drive and thus access to the data on it.
As a result, the complainant appealed against the firstinstance judgment of the civil court and at the same time
brought an action against my negative decision with the
responsible administrative court. However, the Court of
Appeal rejected the appeal in its entirety, citing the
judgment of the first instance. As a result, the complainant
apparently saw little chance of success even through
administrative legal action, so he decided to withdraw the
action against my authority.

108 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

In this case, the court of appeal saw no illegal data processing by
the retailer in the destruction of the hard drive. The associated
deletion of the data represents data processing in accordance with
Art. 4 No. 2 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This also
applies if it was carried out solely by destroying the data carrier (cf.
insofar as Kühling/Buchner/Herbst, 3rd ed 2020, GDPR Art.

17 para. 39). From a data protection point of view, consent or
another legal basis from Art. 6 Para. 1 DSGVO was required for
their admissibility.
In this respect, the destruction of the hard drive was neither
necessary to fulfill the contract between the buyer and the dealer
(Article 6 (1) (b) GDPR) nor due to a legal obligation (letter c), to
perform a task in the public interest ( Letter e) or to protect a vital
interest of the data subject or another natural person (letter d).
However, the court saw the data medium destruction as being
legitimized by the buyer's consent (Art.

6 paragraph 1 letter a GDPR). The consenting act lay in the
coherent conduct of the buyer in returning the hard drive as part of
the contractual guarantee, since the retailer had pointed out that
the buyer was solely responsible for data backup.

request for information
As far as the request for information on the basis of Art. 15 GDPR
is concerned, this only includes the right to information as to
whether personal data is being processed. An obligation to provide
information relating to the past, which also includes data that has
already been deleted, would otherwise contradict the principle of
storage limitation in Art. 5 Para. 1 Letter e GDPR and the storage
periods to be specified via Art. 15 Para. 1 Letter d GDPR (Kamlah
in: Plath , GDPR/BDSG, 3rd edition 2018, Art. 15 GDPR, No. 5;
BeckOK data protection R/Schmidt-Wudy, Art.

15 GDPR para. 52; Kühling/Buchner/Bäcker, Art. 15 GDPR para.
9).

Activity Report 2021

| 109

Machine Translated by Google

With the information about the whereabouts of the hard drive, the court
considered the right to information according to Section 362 of the
German Civil Code (BGB) to be fulfilled.

In this regard, it referred to the decisions of the Federal Court of
Justice, according to which a right to information is fulfilled if the
information according to the declared will of the debtor represents the
information in the total scope owed.
Any inaccuracy of the content of the information does not preclude
the fulfillment of the obligation to provide information, because only
the possibly implied declaration of the information debtor that the
information is complete is essential. Only the suspicion that the
information provided is incomplete or incorrect cannot justify a claim
for information to a greater extent (cf. BGH, judgment of September
3, 2020 - III ZR 136/18, GRUR 2021, 110 para. 43 with other
evidence). The acceptance of such a declaration content therefore
presupposes that the information provided should clearly and
completely cover the subject matter of the legitimate request for
information (Federal Court of Justice, judgment of June 15, 2021 - VI
ZR 576/19 -, para. 19 -20, juris).

This sums up the following:
• From the point of view of data protection law, it is undisputed that in
the destruction of a data medium containing personal data is
What should I do?
As far as affected persons

processing of personal data in accordance with Art. 4 No. 2
GDPR. • The consent according to Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter a

It is recommended to use IT service
providers who entrusted to the service
providers
to back up personal data stored on
data carriers beforehand in order to
be able to access copies in the event
of a possible loss of data.

GDPR in
the data processing (here: destruction or deletion) can also take
place through conclusive behavior, such as returning a hard
disk to the seller under a contractual guarantee with prior
reference to the sole responsibility of the buyer for data backup.
• In order to fulfill the obligation to provide information according

The information of the person responsible

must be done in full.
It is not about the correctness of

to Art. 15 GDPR, it is sufficient if the information is provided
according to the will

the content. Subjective doubts as
to the completeness do not justify

of the person obliged to provide information includes the scope

any claim to a further scope of
information.

owed, even in the event of any incorrect content
of information.

110 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

The legal dispute was pending at the Dresden Higher Regional
Court, judgment of August 31, 2021 - 4 U 324/21 -.

3.2.3 Free copies of exam
papers
ÿ Section 28 (2) SächsJAPO, Article 15 (3) sentence 1 in conjunction with Article
12 (5) sentence 1 GDPR, Article 23 GDPR

During the reporting period, a petitioner turned in a data

protection complaint to my authority. He shared that he was after
after successfully completing the state compulsory subject
examination, I applied for electronic copies of his written exams
from the State Judicial Examination Office (LJPA). The LJPA also
complied with this, but charged costs of 30 euros. The petitioner
saw the obligation of the LJPA, according to Art. 15 para. 3
sentence 1 in connection with Art. 12 para.
5 sentence 1 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
to make the copies available free of charge violates.
When I asked, the LJPA informed my authority that the costs
would be charged on the basis of Section 13 (5) of the Saxon
Administrative Costs Act (SächsVwKG) as expenses for
reproductions. Until the decision of the Federal Administrative
Court in an (apparently) similar legal dispute from North RhineWestphalia (see Higher Administrative Court for the State of North
Rhine-Westphalia, June 8, 2021, Az.: 16 A 1582/20), this approach
will be followed
hold onto.
GDPR applies
The LJPA's approach of charging expenses for the provision of
copies of examination papers violates Art. 15 (3) sentence 3 in
conjunction with Art. 12 (5) sentence 1 GDPR. The provision of
information in accordance with Art. 15 Para. 3 GDPR takes place
in the case of initial information in accordance with Art. 12 Para.
5 sentence 1 GDPR free of charge. This also applies to a copy.
The Saxon Administrative Costs Act does not apply to the
issuance of copies in accordance with Art. 15 Para. 3 Sentence 1
and Sentence 3 GDPR.

Activity Report 2021

| 111

Machine Translated by Google

The GDPR applies to written examination papers.
The written exams prepared by the petitioner and the examiner's reports
are personal data within the meaning of Art. 4 No. 1 DSGVO, with regard
to which
he basically has a right to information in accordance with Art. 15 Para. 1
GDPR and the right to have copies made available in accordance with
Art. 15 Para. 3 Sentence 1 GDPR. This corresponds to the supreme case
law of the European Court of Justice (ECJ, December 20, 2017, case
no.: C-434/16). In addition, this personal data is also stored in a file
system in accordance with Art. 2 (1) GDPR. After

written exchange with the LJPA existed regarding
of the applicability of the GDPR to the present case, there was early
agreement between our houses.
In the Free State of Saxony there is no regulation that
right to information and the issuance of a free first copy with regard to
legal examination work in accordance with the provisions of Art. 23 GDPR.

The Saxon regulation on the inspection of examination papers cannot
restrict the right under European law to receive a free copy. The right to
inspect examination papers is only standardized in a legal ordinance,
namely in Section 28 (2) of the Saxon Lawyers Training and Examination
Regulations (SächsJAPO).

This provision – which nowhere refers to the right to information that is
determined by European law and includes written examination papers –
is to be qualified as a legal-restricting standard that supersedes the right
under Art. 15 GDPR, with the requirements of Art.

23 para. 2 GDPR to a legally restrictive regulation
just as difficult to reconcile as with the essentiality theory of the Federal
Constitutional Court, according to which the decision on essential
questions is reserved for the parliamentary legislature and cannot be
transferred to the executive. The right to inspect examination papers is
not mentioned in § 9 of the Saxon Lawyer Training Act (SächsJAG), the
legal basis for issuing a statutory ordinance; in

112 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

§ 9 SächsJAG also has no reference to Art.
15 GDPR or to a possibility of restricting the right to information
according to Art. 15 GDPR. Since the GDPR came into direct
effect on May 25, 2018, both the Saxon Lawyer Training Act and
the Saxon Lawyer Training and Examination Regulations have
been amended.
In none of these changes was a restriction of the right to
information under Art. 15 GDPR considered or even implemented.
The Saxon Administrative Costs Act and thus Section 13 (5)
SächsVwKG, on which the LJPA is based, apply to the collection
of fees and expenses (administrative costs) for individually
attributable public-law services by the authorities of the Free
State of Saxony, but according to Section 1 Para. 2 SächsVwKG
to the collection of administrative costs according to other legal
provisions, including the directly applicable legal acts of the
European Union, only supplementary application, insofar as
nothing there
Deviating is determined. In Art. 12 Para. 5 Sentence 1 GDPR

the free of charge is clearly standardized - in connection with Art.
15 para. 3 sentences 1 and 2 GDPR, it also refers to

misleadingly on a first copy - so that the Saxon Administrative
Costs Act does not apply in this respect, precisely because of a
different regulation in a directly applicable EU regulation. The
state legislature has seen the priority of application of European
law here and has particularly emphasized this in the formulation
of Section 1 (2) SächsVwKG – declaratively.

procedure changed
Unfortunately, the LJPA did not respond to these indications of
the – clear – Saxon legal situation and announced that it would
continue to charge costs for copies of examination papers in
accordance with Section 13 Section 5
to raise SächsVwKG.
Only after my directly opposite the Saxon State Ministry of
Justice and for Democracy, Europe and Equality

Activity Report 2021

| 113

Machine Translated by Google

intention expressed by way of an order pursuant to Art.
58 Para. 2 Letter c GDPR to instruct the LJPA to test
are able to provide a first copy of their written examination
What should I do?

papers free of charge upon request, the LJPA has

The LJPA must provide examinees with

reviewed its legal position and previous practice again

a copy of their examination papers that
they have requested free of charge.

and decided to no longer adhere to this and to issue
copies free of charge.

114 |

Chapter 3

Machine Translated by Google

4 Obligations of controllers and
processors

4.1 Responsibility for
processing, technical design
4.1.1 Simplified test scheme for
the use of additional services on
websites/apps according to GDPR,
TTDSG and Schrems II
ÿ § 25 TTDSG; Art. 6, 8, 25, 28, 32, 49 DSGVO

Again and again I am asked by those responsible that it
is so terribly complicated with cookies and data protection.
Well, it's actually not that complicated, there are also
many working aids from the supervisory authorities, most
recently the Telemedia Orientation Guide, which was
OH telemedia:
ÿ sdb.de/tb2110

updated due to the changes in telemedia. Nevertheless, I
will try to present it briefly here
which requirements must be observed and which points
the supervisory authorities pay particular attention to
when examining websites and apps.
In principle, there are three groups of requirements
observe. On the one hand, of course, the Basic Data Protection Ordinance

ordinance (DSGVO) - in particular Art. 25 and 32 - for all
processing of a website or an app. It should be noted that
each resource, including an integrated font or an
embedded video from a third-party server, represents
separate processing. Furthermore, the Telecommunications
Telemedia Data Protection Act (TTDSG) has been in
force since December 1, 2021, which in principle requires
consent to the setting and reading of cookies and

Activity Report 2021

| 115

Machine Translated by Google

similar technologies on end devices. Finally, the so-called Schrems II
judgment of the European Court of Justice must be observed, which
makes data transfers to non-European third countries significantly more
difficult.
How can these requirements be met and when is consent
required?
Understandably, many people in charge want to
do without the unloved consent banner that many users find annoying.
However, this is only possible under very strict conditions. The GDPR
regulates all processing and requires the existence of a valid legal basis.
The most likely legal basis for websites and apps, in addition to consent
(Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter a), is legitimate interest (Art. 6 Para. 1 Letter f).
However, this legitimate interest must be proven and requires a balance
between the interests of the person responsible and

the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the
affected person. This is anything but trivial, a mere
A justification of usefulness on the part of the person responsible is not
sufficient. In practice, this is one of the most common mistakes when the
supervisory authority asks the Ein
set of a third-party service purely with the interests of the Ver
responsible and existing risks are justified purely by the fact that the
users want it that way. On the one hand, this is not a risk assessment
and it is also wrong, as the consistently high number of complaints in the
telemedia sector shows (see 6.2.2).

Facts that speak for a weighing of interests in favor of the person
responsible are, for example, verifiable order processing with an integrated
service provider that meets the requirements of Art. 28 GDPR or
processing by the person responsible himself or technical and
organizational measures such as rapid anonymization of data personal
data (e.g. IP addresses, cookie identifiers). Processing which, due to its
risk, tends not to be based on a legitimate

116 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

Another interest that can be supported is the formation of
profiles and so-called user journeys, i.e. everything that is
commonly understood as tracking. As a rule, the legitimate
interest must also be questioned if a third party uses the
data obtained for their own purposes or if this is not clearly
excluded. To put it bluntly: the use of the services of large
providers whose business model is the collection and
aggregation of usage data for advertising purposes and
who also have the corresponding market power is of
legitimate interest
se of the person responsible. Especially since in many cases

If the person responsible does not even know exactly how
the service provider deals with the data obtained. However,
case law clearly assumes that the person responsible also
shares responsibility for the services used. If the
prerequisites for a legitimate interest are not met, there is
usually only recourse to consent. All the requirements of
the GDPR must be observed, which requires strict rules
for transparency, certainty and voluntariness as well as
the consent of the legal guardian in cases of use by
minors. It is indeed difficult to meet all these requirements
in practice, so I always recommend a careful check of
which processing operations are actually absolutely
necessary.
If consent is obtained, it must also represent actual
consent. Tricks that are often found in practice (keywords:
dark pattern and nudging) are clearly illegal if they exceed
a certain limit.

Small scope for cookies without
consent requirement
If cookies or similar technologies are used in addition to
processing, their use must meet the requirements of the
TTDSG, which generally requires consent. Even if this
law, which has been in force since 2002, converts the
European ePrivacy Directive into German law

Activity Report 2021

| 117

Machine Translated by Google

sets, has not changed much, it should be clear to everyone
responsible that the mass setting of cookies is now
must come to an end. Exceptions to a consent requirement
are narrowly limited to an absolute necessity, so that the
provider can expressly request a consent from the user
desired telemedia service can provide.
What does that mean in practice? Of course, I support the
reversal of the consent requirement called for by some voices
according to the motto "People want it that way!"
not, but I also see possibilities for setting and reading cookies
without consent. Based on the terminology of the user request
and necessity, each cookie must be checked: When, how, for
how long and for whom is a cookie set? It is about an
evaluation of the purpose and the means!
The "when?" refers to the time of the betting.
An individualized shopping cart cookie in a

Online shop can only be set when the shopping cart is used.
This is not required for mere browsing. The same applies to
cookies for additional functions such as chats or map widgets.
Here, the "when" can be determined based on the user's
request; the cookie is only required when the service in
question is actually available
is being used.
The "how?" refers to the content of the cookie. Cookies that
set and/or read individual pseudonyms in the form of randomly
generated or otherwise obtained information (unique device
features in the form of fingerprints or device-specific
identification numbers) are particularly relevant in terms of the
provision of Section 25 TTDSG (protection of privacy in end
devices). . In many
cases there is no need for this. That's how it is
It is not necessary to consider that consent management,
which is intended to save the decision on the selection of
desired processing, sets an individualized cookie (and certainly
not when a website is called up initially before a decision has
been made, see above Unit volume). For storing the

118 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

It is sufficient to save this non-individually (e.g. in the form of
"tracking=false; comfort=true ...).
Since cookies with an individual ID pose the greatest risk to the privacy
of users
these are of particular interest to the supervisory authorities.
The “how long?” refers to the lifetime of a cookie. Again, it is crucial
whether it is a
individualized cookie acts because of this in combination
with a long running time enables the recognition of returning visitors to a
website. To be clear: cases of individualized cookies with

a runtime beyond a session are in practice
hard to imagine without consent. Also in the above
The shopping cart cookie mentioned above is permanent
Labeling of visitors is certainly in the interest of a shop operator, but this
is not possible without explicit consent.

The "For whom?" refers to the betting domain of one
Cookies or generally on the recipient of the data. Cookies and other
features that are set and read beyond the boundaries of the website
actually called up represent a high risk for privacy due to the associated
possibility of cross-website tracking. Here too, in practice, only very few
cases are conceivable which the exceptions to a consent requirement will
apply.

Better to avoid cookies
It must be clear to everyone responsible that the law requires that every
cookie has to be put to the test. If necessary, this opportunity should also
be used to check
which services also work without the setting of cookies

kidneys It is also clear that the supervisory authorities are not only
check the purpose, but also the specific means, and a general statement
that a cookie is required for load balancing, for example, is technically
checked in detail.

Activity Report 2021

| 119

Machine Translated by Google

The consent requirement also includes "harmless" cookies, for
example a cookie that saves language settings in the form of
content such as "language=de". In this specific case, it is quite
possible that the supervisory authority will ignore the fact that
this cookie is already set when the website is called up.

Use of US service providers mostly

not possible
Finally, as a third aspect of a telemedia service, possible
references to third countries outside the EU must also be taken
into account. True, many service providers, especially
from the USA, European branches and offer order processing
contracts (their conformity with Art.
28 GDPR is left undecided here) and assure data processing
in Europe. However, data processing abroad “in exceptional
cases” is often not excluded in the contracts. In many cases,
the use of such service providers is simply not possible.
The conclusion of a contract with the European branch of a US
service provider also does not protect against access by foreign
authorities within the framework of the
Cloud-Acts.
Furthermore, there are no additional measures for the area of
usage data processing that can ensure protection of the data,
at least the IP address
and usage data of the end device are always affected and
cannot be secured. Even if those responsible occasionally put
forward it as an "additional protective measure", transport
encryption is clearly not such a measure, but standard and also
unsuitable for protecting exported data. In its guidelines 2/2018
on the exceptions under Article 49 of Regulation 2016/679, the
European Data Protection Board also stated that personal data
that is processed in connection with the regular tracking of user
behavior on websites or in apps is generally not based on
consent

120 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

What should I do?

Website and app operators
should avoid using
Cookies and other techno
check logies urgently.
In particular, the precise
design of the technologies and
their necessity must be
revised. kind and
Duration of storage and
subsequent processing must
meet the requirements of

Art. 49 Para. 1 Letter a GDPR transmitted to a third country

can become.
This article cannot cover all aspects, in particular those of
consent, in their entirety, but it is intended to show those
responsible how to operate a website or app securely
without requiring consent.
Because it is still possible to offer legally compliant services
without the unloved consent banner. However, it requires
a precise inventory and precise justifications.

TTDSG and DSGVO.

4.1.2 Electronic class register
ÿ VwV school forms

In the 18th activity report (2017), my predecessor in office
18. Activity report:
ÿ sdb.de/tb2111

described under 7.5 on page 96 that several inquiries about
the admissibility of a purely electronic grade book
unfortunately had to be answered negatively, since the
relevant VwV prescribed school forms for this as well as for
the class diary, they in the format DIN A4.
With the new version of the administrative regulation of
August 25, 2021, a different picture emerges. According to
this, the student transfer directory, student file, grade book,
class register and course book can now be in electronic form
provided that specific technical requirements are met. For
example, these documents must be backed up completely
in unchangeable electronic form or in printed form as a
stapled document. An electronic signature must also be
used instead of the signum and signature. It remains to be
seen how the latter in particular will be implemented in
practice. Unfortunately, my suggestion to provide
appropriate software as part of the Saxon school
administration software (SaxSVS) has not been taken up
for a long time.

Activity Report 2021

| 121

Machine Translated by Google

4.1.3 Notices from bailiffs in sealed
envelopes only
ÿ Art. 5 Para. 1 Letter f GDPR, Art. 32 GDPR

Citizens keep complaining to me about bailiffs who throw
official letters or notifications relating to enforcement
proceedings into mailboxes that other people have access to
without an envelope, or who openly hand them over directly to
third parties (roommates or employees). It is thus possible for
these persons (third parties) to gain knowledge of the existence
of enforcement proceedings against the person concerned and
of the content of the letter itself.
Regarding service by bailiffs, the 13th activity report for the
public sector (2007), page 138, referred to the obligation to
use envelopes. At that time it was about the formal (substitute)
service of a court order.
On the occasion of the petitions that are still reaching me

this topic I want to emphasize that not only formally
documents to be delivered, but in principle also "simple"
messages, for example the notification that contact is requested
in a specific procedure, to be placed in a sealed envelope in
the addressee's mailbox or - alternatively - handed over to a
third party. Theoretically, an exception can only be made if the
bailiff knows for sure that only the recipient has access to the
mailbox. However, this will generally not be the case.

The reason for the obligation to use a sealed envelope – this
also applies if it is put into a family mailbox on which only the
family name is given – is that the bailiff is bound by official
secrecy and to protect personal rights
of the debtor concerned as the addressee of the letters ver
is obligated. The fact that the addressee is involved in a
foreclosure process is already a fact that requires secrecy and
is not unauthorized

122 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

may be transmitted to third parties. Information about the debtor or the
subject of the proceedings that is subject to official secrecy must not be
passed to third parties (this also includes family members) without a
legal basis. There is no such legal basis for the disclosure of personal
data from the enforcement proceedings to third parties, which can also
What should I do?

lie in enabling the acknowledgment of an open letter. Therefore, the bailiff

For unauthorized knowledge
to avoid third parties
Bailiff notices and documents to
be served
always in a locked

always necessary for the protection of the debtor's right

Putting an envelope in the
mailbox or giving it to third parties

tary organizational measures - here the use of a sealed envelope - to be

hand over.

taken.

4.1.4 Forwarding of an email to a city
council by the Lord Mayor
ÿ Section 52 (5) SächsGemO, Art. 6 GDPR

A city councilor informed my agency that the Oberbür
germeister of a Saxon city addressed to him
Email from a citizen in response to a public
City Council meeting took place and the salutation addressed the City
Council alone, read and instructed the “Ratsschreiber stube” to send
this e-mail to everyone else
forward to city councils.
The mayor, who was asked to comment, was initially unable to identify
any data protection violations, since the
message was addressed to the general city e-mail box. The original
letter from the city council, to which the citizen had reacted, was also
addressed “to the community of city councilors and the public”. Finally, it
was objected that the citizen wanted to address the entire city council
with the message.

The latter is not convincing because the city council was addressed
personally in the e-mail. Also, addressing the City Council's letter "to the
City Council community and the public" cannot be

effect for the sender of the letter in question. Likewise, the forwarding of
the e-mail was not

Activity Report 2021

| 123

Machine Translated by Google

necessary. Although a mayor is officially obliged under Section
52 (5) of the Saxon Municipal Code (SächsGemO) to inform
the city council about all matters relating to the municipality
and administration, this does not include the forwarding of an
e-mail addressed solely to a city councillor . The opposite does
not result from a broad understanding of the concept of the
matter in § 52 SächsGemO, in which a mayor decides on the
scope of his information obligation at his best discretion. The
powers end where the personal rights of the recipient prevail,
as is the case here.
The mayor finally recognized this and assured that in future
the data protection regulations presented would be observed
for explicitly addressed e-mails.

4.1.5 Cooperation on a successor solution
for the video conferencing service
ÿ Art. 25 and 32 GDPR

The State Chancellery is responsible for providing and
Operation of the Saxon administration network (SVN), with the
all state and local authorities within one
secure network can communicate. So-called basic services,
such as a video conferencing service, are also part of the
SVN. This was purchased as an on-premise service when
planning the current SVN solution and made available to all
authorities. On-premise means that the hardware and software
for this solution are operated in a data center that is under the
control of the State Chancellery
stands. Now this video conferencing service was intended for
special cases, because at the time of planning, situations such
as a pandemic had not yet been considered. Unfortunately,
when the public administration had to switch to home office on
a large scale in the course of the corona pandemic, the solution
was completely undersized. To remedy the situation, the State
Chancellery has further licenses for the
Video conferencing service acquired and for sale to the authorities

made available.

124 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

Video conferencing service in the cloud

not data protection compliant
After the additional solution, which was physically located in the cloud,
my predecessor requested the underlying contracts and found that they
did not meet the data protection requirements. For example, it could not
be ruled out that the manufacturer used data for its own purposes, for
example to improve the products, which is not compatible with order
processing and for which a public body simply has no legal basis.
Furthermore, it was not effectively ruled out that data transfers take place
outside the European Union and data are processed in so-called unsafe
third countries.

My authority pointed out these deficiencies to the State Chancellery, but
in view of the urgent need for a video conference solution during the
pandemic, a temporary toleration was agreed.

At the same time, it was agreed that a sub-working group of the SVN
working group would be set up to find a legally safe successor solution
that also met all the technical requirements. This sub-working group was
headed by the SID on behalf of the State Chancellery and was made up
of representatives from the technical departments of individual ministries
and representatives of accessibility, the

Information security and data protection.
As an explicit aim of the work, the state
law firm also strengthens the digital sovereignty of the
named Free State of Saxony, a goal that I also think
corresponds to ideas.
decision for free software
The sub-working group started its work quickly. A list of criteria with
legal, technical and professional requirements was created and numerous
possible products were examined in the context of tests.

As a result, the sub-working group made a recommendation for a product
based on free software

Activity Report 2021

| 125

Machine Translated by Google

and operated by the Free State of Saxony under its own responsibility. It
became clear that too
Professional and technical requirements cannot only be met by wellknown manufacturers, as is often claimed.
My predecessor was also in favor of this product, both for reasons of
legal controllability and for economic reasons. For the cloud services also
included in the rating gro

My authority had asked for more international manufacturers
What should I do?

emphatically not said. Such data processing has high risks for legally

The Free State Authorities

compliant operation, since

Saxony are obliged to use video

Extensive contractual documents, complex data flows and frequently

conferencing services
to bring, which Art. 25 and 32

changing conditions are difficult to reconcile with the requirements for

DSGVO satisfy. The same applies

transparency, being informed and the rights of those affected. The result

to the use of cloud services.

has now been presented to the State Chancellery, I hope for a
corresponding response, but I will point out the deficiencies mentioned

Preference should be given to
systems operated autonomously and

above

under one's own responsibility.

no longer tolerate the future.

4.2 Order processing
4.2.1 Processing of personal
data when investigating
processes by "independent" expert comm
ÿ § 3 Saxon GDPR; §§ 4, 17 SächsVwOrgG; Article 28 GDPR

In the course of dealing with misconduct within the administration that
has become public knowledge and has the potential to cause a scandal,
an external expert or a commission made up of experts who are not
members of the Free State administration has been commissioned to
carry out the independent investigation in recent years

of incidents increasing in popularity. Mostly granted
Ministry of State, in whose area of responsibility the processes to be
examined took place, commissioned the expert by way of a civil law
contract to investigate and to submit a

final report. Particularly emphasized at the information
information to the public about the appointment of an expert

126 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

regularly the independence of the experts and the fact that they are not
given any instructions in the fulfillment of their mandate. Under a civil
contract, the experts are guaranteed access to official documents and
support from employees of the Free State.

I have long criticized this practice. On the one hand is the use of persons
under private law, for example in organizational investigations, in the
course of which no personal
Data are processed and not in fundamental rights of Per
sonen is intervened, unproblematic and given be
special expertise of externals for the desired purpose
On the other hand, the commissioning of private individuals to investigate
specific incidents that cannot be conducted without the processing of
personal data and for which the legislature has defined responsible state
agencies and procedural regulations, on the other hand, encounters the
greatest constitutional concerns.

No order processing when commissioning an
independent body
The indisputable power of a (supervisory) authority to obtain
comprehensive information about processes in its area of responsibility
to inform and this within the scope of their self-regulation
For constitutional and state organizational reasons, the investigation
cannot include the commissioning of “independent” third parties or
bodies outside the state administration to carry out activities that involve
encroachments on fundamental rights. The assignment of a task alone
does not authorize the competent state agency to transfer the execution
of this task, which involves encroachments on fundamental rights, to a
body outside the state administration that is independent and independent
of instructions. A civil-contractual "appointment" cannot replace the
necessary statutory transfer of a task performance that adversely affects
fundamental rights. In terms of data protection law, it is also not
commissioned processing (Art. 28 GDPR), the central element of which
is that the commissioned processor is bound by instructions.

Activity Report 2021

| 127

Machine Translated by Google

External, independent experts lack
constitutional legitimacy
There is simply no such thing as state-initiated processing of personal
data – an encroachment on fundamental rights – by an independent
commission of experts, not bound by instructions, which is commissioned
“freely” under civil contracts and whose members are not legally involved
in the administrative structure of the supervisory authority responsible
for the relevant investigations legal basis. However, such would be
absolutely necessary and is to be found, for example, with regard to the
involvement of other private individuals

formal state procedures – namely the experts
who, in the event of their appointment, meet a public-law obligation to
provide expert opinions and are remunerated in accordance with
statutory provisions – in detail in the procedural laws.

So understandable the idea of a non-governmental, independent
Commissioning independent private individuals who are not subject to
directives to process personal data on their own authority, which public
Saxon authorities have sovereignly collected and are storing within their
statutory competence, is also just as unlikely to allow a pending body to
examine official processes and incidents “particularly objectively”.

essential principles of the rule of law. This
This applies all the more to cases in which there are misconduct relevant
to disciplinary and/or criminal law, the prosecution of which is a core
activity of the sovereign state and which is regulated in detail by law.

It is obvious that investigations by external experts in parallel with
pending disciplinary and/or criminal investigations threaten to undermine
statutory responsibilities and, above all, protective regulations. Strict
legal rules bind the competent state bodies as norm addressees, but not
the zi

contractually appointed external experts. The latter not only lacks
constitutional legitimacy for its activities, it is also not subject to
parliamentary control, unlike the state administration.

128 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

As a rule, the final report of the expert or the expert
commission finds its way into the public domain, especially
if the results of the investigation show little or no evidence
of incorrect action by the state ministry that commissioned
the investigation. And of course such a final report is hardly
conceivable without personal data from employees of the
Free State or third parties.

Possibilities of involving external third parties
During the reporting period announced the appointment of an independent

Commission of inquiry to clarify the so-called
Ammunition scandals in the State Criminal Police Office
to deal with these questions with the Saxon State Ministry
of the Interior (SMI).
As a result of the exchange, there was agreement that the
processing of personal data as part of the exercise of
technical and administrative supervision by the highest
Supervisory authority - the State Ministry - on § 3 Säch

The Saxon Data Protection Implementation Act (SächsDSDG)
in connection with §§ 4, 17 Saxon Administrative
Organization Act (SächsVwOrgG) can be supported.
The supervisory authority also has the option of entrusting
processors with certain processing of personal data,
whereby the requirements of Art. 28 GDPR must be
observed. A transfer of functions in such a way that the
tasks incumbent on the State Ministry and the powers to
which it is entitled are transferred to third parties for
treatment without instructions at their own discretion is
excluded.
A comprehensive (first) collection of data by external parties
would be inadmissible in the currently applicable legal
framework; This would apply a fortiori to the assignment of
tasks to third parties that the legislature has assigned to
certain state agencies (e.g. the public prosecutor’s office or
the State Office for the Protection of the Constitution).

Activity Report 2021

| 129

Machine Translated by Google

It also follows from this that external persons have no authority to issue
instructions to employees of public bodies in the Free State. Accordingly,
employees of public bodies are not subject to any obligation to provide
information to these persons. Any conflicting civil agreements are
ineffective.

What should I do?

On this point there was between my authority and the

Public authorities are allowed
own tasks and powers of intervention

State Department Unity; the same applies to the existence of confidentiality

are not transferred to third parties under

obligations on the part of the processor and his obligation to hand over all

a civil contract to be carried out

data at the latest after the end of the activity.

independently.
The involvement of third parties in the
official fulfillment of tasks is at best by

If external persons are commissioned in future cases - if personal data

way of and under the narrow conditions of

are (are to be) processed as part of the commission - the procedure of

- bound by instructions - order processing

the commissioned third party should be responsible

according to Art.

28 GDPR permitted.

based on these principles.

4.2.2 Use of Chatbots by Public
Authorities
ÿ Art. 6 and 28 GDPR

In the year under review there were inquiries from local authorities
for the first time, which are so-called for simple inquiries from citizens
te chatbots wanted to use or at least with the
have dealt with the question of deployment in more detail. First of all, a
chatbot is a neutral technology that analyzes simple questions asked in
writing or orally with the help of speech recognition software and from a
fun
dus of standardized answers a quick help for
should enable the questioner. In order to be able to operate such a chatbot
sensibly, it is usually necessary to
To collect and evaluate input from users during operation so that the
knowledge gained from this can be incorporated into the supplement,
expansion and improvement of the service offered. This processing can
be done automatically with a form of artificial intelligence, usually so-called
“machine learning”, or manually by human processors. In most of them

130 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

In some cases, however, a mechanical component will also
be used. It is clear that both operation and data for
the improvement of the system results in the processing of
personal data and thus requires one or more legal bases.
First of all, informed and transparent consent in clear
language is required for the use of the chat bot. Further
consent is required if user data is to be used for other
purposes, for example to improve the service or measure
usage behavior. This consent must be designed in such a
way that the chatbot can also be used without processing for
these purposes. Special cases of consent, such as that of
children, for which the consent of the legal guardian is
required, must be taken into account. Duration of storage
and processing must be specified for all purposes and the
rights of those affected must be guaranteed.

If particularly sensitive data (e.g
Automated information from health authorities on Qua
banee provisions) are processed, technical and organizational
measures must be taken to effectively reduce the risks, for
example by erasing or anonymizing data as quickly as
possible, restricting access rights, encrypting databases or
other suitable measures.
If such a service is used as part of order processing, the
commissioned service provider must be checked carefully.
In particular, it must be ensured that the service provider
only uses the processed data in
Processed as part of the order and not for our own purposes.
For public bodies, such a transfer of data for use due to the
legitimate interest of third parties is expressly prohibited.
Data processing "to improve the product" in favor of the
manufacturer must be clearly excluded. Likewise, the
processing must take place within the European Union. This
applies in particular to the sub-processors used

Activity Report 2021

| 131

Machine Translated by Google

processor. It is not uncommon in practice that the processor is
What should I
do? Public bodies or by
these obligated contractors
must when deployed
by chatbots or similar

based in Europe, but uses a global content delivery network for
the delivery of individual components and thus the transmission
of usage data to a cloud with non-European data processing is
not effectively ruled out .

Techniques ensure that the
requirements of the GDPR are met.

4.2.3 Use of the Corona-Warn-App
(CWA) by public authorities
ÿ SächsCoronaNotVO

A university asked whether a contract for order processing was
required for the use of the Corona-Warn-App (CWA) if this was
used for access control of teaching and other events at the
university within the framework of the applicable corona
protection measures is used.
The answer to the question is in the negative to the extent that
such a contract cannot be concluded at all, since the university
does not process any data at all. The public body only creates
the QR codes with the data of the respective event on the
homepage of the Corona-Warn App, with the help of which
users of the app can check in and thus meet contact recording
according to the Saxon Corona Emergency Ordinance.
The Free State of Saxony was the first federal state to
has standardized this data-saving system, which is based on
the personal responsibility of the users, in the state’s Corona
Emergency Ordinance as a substitute for its own contact
tracing.
If the manual contact recording is still offered in parallel or if
you use your own systems in which contact details of visitors
to events are recorded, you are responsible for ensuring that
you meet the data protection requirements.

132 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

4.2.4 Video Interpretation
ÿ Article 28 GDPR

During the reporting period, my predecessor received a
request from a local authority’s data protection officer
about the use of video interpreters. Video interpreters are
used if interpreters are needed at short notice or if
interpreters are not available, for example in a certain
language.
He asked for an opinion as to whether the use of video
interpreters was order processing within the meaning of
Article 28 of the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR). A department of the municipality, which repeatedly
uses interpreters at short notice, takes the view that there
is no order processing because this is a freelance activity.
In the field of the judiciary, video interpreting is used as Auf

contract processing and is used in correctional facilities in
coordination with my authority.
In my opinion, the use of video interpreters in the context
of order processing is possible. Order processing occurs
because the interpreter translates what is said into another
language. It is different with an appraiser who makes his
own assessment. However, the latter is not the case here.
The objection that interpreting is

is a freelance activity.
The requirements of Art. 28 GDPR must be observed.
If the company employs freelancers, there is a
subcontracting relationship that must also meet the
requirements of Art. 28 GDPR.

Activity Report 2021

| 133

Machine Translated by Google

4.3 Security of processing
4.3.1 Use of LernSax
ÿ Art. 32 GDPR

In the 2020 activity report, my predecessor had commented on the
Activity report 2020: ÿ

consent-free use of the LernSax under "2.3.2 LernSax - the Saxon school

sdb.de/tb2020

cloud" (page 90f.). In a petition I was now informed that a

teacher would have sent a message to a student via LernSax saying that
she was rated 4.5 and cheated. This message was sent to the entire
class. The school, asked for a statement, admitted the

data breach. This results from a verse
the teacher. This had a message in LernSax
answered the student and did not notice that this message was sent by
her personally, but from the class group. The teacher's answer was then
automatically visible to the whole group and not just to the student.
Noticing this, she turned

Contact LernSax support immediately to have the message deleted.
Finally, she apologized in a conversation with the student and her
parents. Against this background, my authority has refrained from further
measures.

4.4 Data Breach Reporting
4.4.1 Increase in reported data breaches
ÿ Art. 28, 32, 34, 83 GDPR

According to Article 33 of the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR), those responsible are obliged, in the event of a breach of the
protection of personal data, to

as soon as possible within 72 hours of the injury becoming known
to report this to the supervisory authority, unless the violation of the
protection of personal data has occurred

134 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

not likely to pose a risk to rights and free
units of natural persons.
923 such reports were received in the reporting period. Compared to the
reporting period of the previous year (635 reports), this corresponds to an
increase of around
45 percent. This is again a significant increase in the
record data breach reports.
The following groups of cases were reported particularly frequently in the
reporting period:
wrong shipment

As in the reporting period of the previous year, incorrect dispatch is one
of the most common case groups of reported data protection violations
and accounts for around 35 percent of all reports. The causes of these
incidents are incorrect allocation of documents, faulty enveloping or simply
careless mistakes. As a rule, the incorrect shipment is reported to the
sender by the wrong recipient and the documents are destroyed or
returned, so that in
Illustration 1:
reports from

these cases mostly not of a high risk for the

data breaches

concerned is to be assumed.

1.000
900
800

923

700

600
500

635

400

450

300
200
100

227

0

202020192018

2021

Activity Report 2021

| 135

Machine Translated by Google

Open mailing list

A very important aspect of data protection is due diligence.

This is often neglected, especially when sending e-mails
to large groups of recipients. As a result, sending emails
(e.g. newsletters) from recognizable email addresses in
copy (Cc) mode rather than blind copy (Bcc) mode is still
a reported data breach, typically based on plain un
due to the sender's care. Even if
Since the risk for those affected can often be assessed
as low, such a data protection violation must be reported
under Art. 33 GDPR.
lost in the mail
In addition to incorrect shipments due to the fault of the
sender, numerous reports of the loss of postal items were
again received. This also constitutes a reportable data
protection breach pursuant to Art. 33 GDPR if the sender
has been informed of the loss of the postal item, which is
usually initiated by the specified recipient by finding out
about the whereabouts of the expected postal item.

Loss of media
Thefts also occurred again during the reporting period

or the loss of data carriers, some of which contain
sensitive data. It is particularly annoying – because
avoidable – that the data carriers were usually
unencrypted, so that attackers or finders had direct
access to the data. In order to keep the consequences as
low as possible, one of the mandatory technical and
organizational measures relating to data carriers is
encryption. Corresponding functions are already available
in common operating systems or freely accessible
Notes from the BSI on
Generating secure passwords:

ÿ sdb.de/tb2112

software. When encrypting, it is important to use a secure
password. In addition to encrypting the data carriers, they
must always be properly stored and transported,

136 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

and regular backups should always be performed to ensure data
availability.
Data backups are often kept on storage media or photo documentation
is created. This is particularly sensitive data in day-care centers or
medical practices, for example, so that it is usually lost if it is lost

a high risk and associated considerable damage

that may arise for those affected. The consequence of such a
data protection violation with a high risk for those affected is
then always that the person responsible, in addition to the report
according to Art. 33 GDPR also the data subjects according to Art. 34

GDPR has to notify.
Data Breaches by Processors
This year there were also frequent incidents in which contract processors
were affected by a data protection incident, which had access to
personal data as part of the contractual relationship. This is often the
case when external companies maintain software, take on the billing of
services from external companies or the printing and shipping is
outsourced. The processor has no decision-making authority over the
data and does not pursue his own business purpose with the data.

In the event of data protection incidents involving a processor, the
processor is obliged under Art. 33 Para. 2 GDPR to report this
immediately to the person responsible so that the person responsible
can fulfill his obligation to report to the supervisory authority pursuant to
Art. 33 Para. 1 GDPR or possibly even his obligation to notify under Art
34 (1) GDPR can be complied with at all.

My authority received a reportable incident from a service provider, at
which Saxon company

were affected and named. Due to a misunderstanding by
some of the affected companies, these companies, as the
responsible persons, did not submit their own notification to
my authority, so that the reporting requirement was only met in fol
ge our request was met.

Activity Report 2021

| 137

Machine Translated by Google

cybercrime
Around a third of the reports of data protection breaches received in
2021 can be traced back to cybercrime. This unspecific term
encompasses all actions/offences that are committed through the use
of communication and information technology.

One of the most notable cybercrime incidents was the vulnerabilities in
Microsoft Exchange servers. Numerous reports were received by my
authority at the beginning of 2021. At the beginning of March 2021,
Microsoft released security updates for these vulnerabilities. At the
same time, the company announced that the vulnerability had existed
for some time and was also being actively exploited. Thus, users had
no guarantee that alone

any danger was averted by the immediate installation of security
updates. In addition, it was necessary to check whether the exchange
server had already been compromised.

preventive measures
Prevention and precaution are the right means to counteract a data
protection violation and the associated risks for data subjects and the
reporting obligation in accordance with Art. 33 GDPR. I recommend the
following precautions:
• Secure data! The data of companies and organizations must be
secured at all costs. These backups should not themselves be
vulnerable to cyberattacks.
• Configure the firewall correctly! The firewall should only allow
necessary data connections. An early warning system about
unusually high data traffic can also help those responsible for the
system to
avert damage.

• Observe the emergency plan! In the event of cyber
extortion or hacker attacks, an emergency plan should
be in place, which should be processed in an emergency.
This also includes a regulation as to when the IT administrator, internal

138 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

Data protection officers, the data protection supervisory
authority or the employees, company management
management and customers are to be informed.

• Reserve technology! An urgent recommendation is also to keep reserve
technology available. Investigators can do that
examine the attacked IT system forensically for as long as
necessary, while the company despite
cyber attack is quickly able to work again. •
Communicate early! Those responsible should inform the people or
departments affected quickly about the incident even if it is not
yet certain
whether and which personal data is affected.
• Continuing education! IT managers and all those who work in
Companies and organizations responsible for information security
require regular training.

In connection with the obligation to report data protection violations
according to Art. 33 GDPR, I would like to point out that all data protection
violations must be reported to me. This is only excluded if the data breach
is not likely to result in a risk

for the rights and freedoms of natural persons.
In addition, I would like to point out that in addition to the basic
accountability according to Art. 5 Para. 2
DSGVO in particular to the existing for reporting cases
Documentation obligation according to Art. 33 Para. 5 DSGVO as well as
the possible obligation to inform the data subject
a person according to Art. 34 GDPR.
As part of the obligation under Art. 32 GDPR, the person responsible
must ensure that the necessary technical and organizational measures
are implemented and checked regularly so that data protection violations
are avoided as far as possible. Violations of Art. 32 GDPR would be, for
example, security updates not installed, missing backups, missing
encryption, but also missing measures to raise awareness among those
involved.

Activity Report 2021

| 139

Machine Translated by Google

Violations of protective measures according to Art. 32 GDPR as well as
against formal requirements of reporting or notification according to Art.
33, 34 GDPR can be the subject of a fine according to Art.

83 para. 4 letter a GDPR. Therefore I recommend like this
probably to protect the interests of those affected as well as the
own economic interests of those responsible to check the precautions
mentioned and keep them up to date
to stand firm.

4.5 Data Protection Officer
4.5.1 Data Protection Officer
as Information Security Officer
ÿ Art. 37 GDPR, SächsISichG

The Saxon Information Security Act (SächsISichG) of 2019 obliges
government agencies to appoint an information security officer; sometimes
even full-time. However, non-governmental public bodies, such as
municipalities, should also make such an appointment. A smaller Saxon
municipality approached my authority with the question of whether the
data protection officer appointed under Art. 37 of the General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) could also be considered for a
corresponding appointment.

The appointment of various other officers in the same person as the data
protection officer is fundamentally problematic. However, the information
security officer should be viewed less critically, since information security
and data protection usually run in parallel. This also applies to the fact
that extensive collections of personal data are processed for information
security in order to detect misuse.

Art. 32 GDPR also addresses the security of the processing
tion and also in paragraph 1 letter c) expressly the availability. However,
this is different if the information security officer also has implementation
tasks, even with budget responsibility.

140 |

Chapter 4

Machine Translated by Google

5 International Data Traffic

5.1 New Standard Contractual Clauses
ÿ Article 28 GDPR

As a consequence of the judgment of the European Court of
Justice of July 16, 2020 - C-311/18 - ("Schrems II"), the
European Commission has issued new standard contractual clauses.
Old standard contractual clauses may no longer be used for
new contracts. By December 27, 2022, old contracts based
on the previous standard contract clauses must be changed.
In addition, old contracts must be checked with regard to the
legal situation and legal practice in the third country and the
guaranteed level of protection.
The European Commission has issued an implementing
decision for the new standard contractual clauses,
Implementing decision (EU) 2021/914 of the EU Commission
EUR-Lex:

of July 4, 2021, file number C (2021) 3972, Official Journal EU

ÿ sdb.de/tb2113

No. L 199/31 of June 7, 2021.
The new standard contractual clauses take into account the
usual data transfers to controllers in third countries and the
use of processors and sub-processors. However, it is still
necessary to examine the legal situation and legal practice in
the third country and, if necessary, to take additional protective
measures. If the level of protection cannot be guaranteed, the

What should I do?

data should not be transferred to the third country.

The new standard contract clauses
are to be used unchanged, if
necessary as part of a contract.

If order processing contracts are used, the new standard

Only then does freedom of approval

contractual clauses take into account the requirements of

apply.

Article 28 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Activity Report 2021

| 141

Machine Translated by Google

6 Saxon Data Protection Officer

6.1 Jurisdiction
and Requirements for Complaints
6.1.1 Model projects according
to the Saxon Corona Protection Ordinance
ÿ §§ 8g, 36 SächsCoronaSchVO; Art. 51 Para. 1 GDPR, Art. 57 GDPR

After the Free State of Saxony since December 2020 in the

lockdown and social public life was only possible to a
limited extent, the Saxon Corona Protection Ordinance
(SächsCoronaSchVO) of March 5, 2021 was intended to
allow relaxation.
Idea of model projects
Among other things, so-called model projects should
contribute to this. According to § 8g of the
SächsCoronaSchVO of March 5, 2021, the responsible
district or the responsible independent city for the area
or a part of a municipality could allow deviations from
the restrictive regulations of the SächsCoronaSchVO in
the context of model projects. According to the ordinance,
these model projects should serve to investigate and
develop the course of infection, non-discriminatory
testing of corona test concepts and digital systems for
data protection-compliant processing of personal data
and their transmission to the health department for shortterm and complete contact tracing.

142 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

Initially, the approval of the model projects by the responsible districts
and urban districts required the approval of my authority. In later
versions of the
SächsCoronaSchVO should initially be agreed

and later only the behavior with my office to be established. In addition
to the participation of my authority, the competent approval authority,
i.e. the district or the urban district, also had to involve the supreme
state health authority in this multi-stage administrative procedure. These
participants were also changed in the course of the adjustments to the
SächsCoronaSchVO.

For example, according to the SächsCoronaSchVO of March 29, 2021
(in the consolidated version of April 16, 2021), the Saxon State Ministry
for Social Affairs and
Social cohesion and the at the Staatsmi
nister for culture and tourism in the state ministry for
Science, culture and tourism committee to be involved.

Difficulties in procedures and projects
This regulation posed major challenges for my authority, particularly in
terms of personnel, but also in relation to the non-coordinated procedure
between the different parties involved in the procedure, because of the
unclear application requirements, but also in relation to the diversity of
the projects, which required a comprehensive and careful individual
assessment required. My office had to deal with a flood of applications
and large numbers of cases.

The restrictions on commercial operations due to the Corona measures,
such as the closure of the hotel and

Hospitality establishments and restaurants and also the ban on
According to my observation, events led to the pilot projects being used
as an instrument for circumventing the protective measures or opening
them up and only secondarily for testing digital systems for data
protection-compliant processing of personal data

should be.

Activity Report 2021

| 143

Machine Translated by Google

This is evidenced by a large number of model project applications
Associations, companies and organizers, in particular
for example from the event area, which is severely affected by
restrictions, as well as the planned use of digital systems, which are
often far removed from data protection standards, should be developed
and put into operation at short notice. Necessary procedural descriptions
that describe the data processing processes were a regular feature –
in particular who exactly collects which data for what purpose and time,
who forwards data for what purpose, when the data will be deleted, how
the persons concerned are informed, which

technical and organizational measures have been taken to protect the
data - non-existent or insufficient, sometimes rudimentary.

Structural flaws in legislation
Due to the lack of participation of my authority in the
Introduction of this regulation and the short notice with which this
regulation came into force, neither the application requirements nor the
procedure between the participating approval authorities were
coordinated and procedural
structured.
My authority takes the view that the

Question of the implementation of the model projects primarily in
protection law and not data protection law
were physical matters that would have to be decided by the relevant
health or licensing authority. Even if the model projects regularly had
data protection problems, the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) does not allow my authority to be involved in this form. To what
extent such a task assignment to my authority by the Saxon legislator
conforms to European law, cf. Art. 51 Para. 1, Art. 57 GDPR, should
have been examined in depth by the Saxon legislator.

144 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

The tasks of my authority are conclusively regulated by the General Data
Protection Regulation or formal law. Nevertheless, my authority checked
the model project applications.

The regulations of the SächsCoronaSchVO for the model
Projects regarding the participation of my authority were not compatible
with the system or not coordinated with the European regulation, since
my authority is locally only authorized to supervise the responsible
persons and processors located in Saxony. There is also no factual
responsibility of my authority towards model project applicants who are
not themselves data-processing bodies. These are not obligated to my
authority and cannot be imposed or controlled. In addition, there is a
possible collision of supervisory responsibilities with specific supervisory
authorities, for example in the case of church authorities, for which my
authority is also not responsible. In any case, the implications were not
taken into account by the legislator, but had become apparent very quickly
in the processing of the model project applications and had a significant
impact on the procedure, particularly with regard to the involvement of
other data protection supervisory authorities and the processing time. It
also remained to be noted that, in addition to the tasks assigned under
European law for participation in formal, tiered administrative procedures
perso

What should I do?
As far as the Saxon Ge

nally and factually the resources in my authority were missing.

If the legislator or legislator intends
to test automated processes in

summary

projects, the Saxon data protection
officer can be notified of this. In this
way one can also

At the end of April 2021, the Infection Protection Act was amended. Due
to the restrictions specified therein (so-called "federal emergency brake"),
the realization of the model projects was anyway due to the high incidence

participation take place. A data
protection and
information security law
quality more automated

figures
no longer feasible. After the federal government expires
emergency brake could only be carried out in isolated model projects
due to the problems described above.

Procedures, on the other hand, are
primarily to be safeguarded by those
responsible for the project.

In my opinion, due to the circumstances described above, this was done
with the model projects

Activity Report 2021

| 145

Machine Translated by Google

linked target missed. This affected both the development of
digital systems for the data protection-compliant processing of
personal data and their transmission to the health department
for short-term and complete contact tracing.

6.1.2 Data processing by a youth
welfare office as part of family court
proceedings
ÿ GDPR, SGB VIII

The procedure for the temporary admission and accommodation
of a child or young person in an emergency situation by the
youth welfare office is regulated in Section 42 of the Eighth
Book of the Social Code (SGB VIII). If the caregivers or legal
guardians object to such taking into care or if they cannot be
reached, the youth welfare office has a decision from the family
court on the necessary measures for the well-being of the child
or young person
bring about.

§ 42 SGB VIII also regulates the possibility of temporarily
accommodating a child/adolescent with a suitable person.
Participation in proceedings before the family court according
to § 50 SGB VIII is one of the tasks of child and youth welfare
according to § 2 paragraph 3 and 6 SGB VIII. In this respect,
the Youth Welfare Office is entitled to participate in proceedings
of the family court to decide whether a child is to be taken into
care, i.e. also to the question of who can be regarded as a
suitable person for an intended taking into care in an individual case.
The youth welfare office is therefore entitled to issue a specific,
personal opinion on the person in question to the family court
with regard to the question of suitability. A consent requirement
of
data subject is not required for this.

What specific technical requirements are required for taking a
suitable person into care and whether these are specific and
factual in relation to their person

146 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

have been correctly assessed is a technical legal issue,
but not a data protection issue, so that this is not subject
to review by my authority.

6.1.3 Violation of the imprint obligation
ÿ Section 1, paragraph 2, sentences 2 and 3 of the Saxon Law on the
Implementation of the State Media Treaty and the State Broadcasting Contribution
Treaty, Section 106 MStV

Complaints I receive again and again contain (also) a
reference to a missing, incomplete or incorrect imprint on
a website. In one case, a homeowner approached me
and explained that it was wrong on the Facebook fan
page of a business
used the address of his apartment building as a business address

be specified. The homeowner saw the danger that
potential tenants could become aware of this and be put
off by it. As it turned out, the owner of the company had
his private apartment in the apartment building until a few
years ago.
First of all, the homeowner requested my authority to
intervene on the basis of data protection law, which my
predecessor had to refuse, citing the non-applicability of
the data protection regulations. As a result, the homeowner
asserted a breach of the imprint obligation because of
the incorrect address given and wanted to know where to
turn in this regard.
Responsibility reorganized
My predecessor had already dealt with the imprint
obligation and the question of the competent authority in
his activity report for the reporting period from April 1,
2017 to December 31, 2018 (6.1.2, page 230f.). At that
time, he referred possible violations of the provider
identification obligation to the Saxony State Directorate.
In the meantime, however, the Saxon legislature has

newly regulated the question of jurisdiction for all matters relating to
The one on which the statements at that time were based

Activity Report 2021

| 147

Machine Translated by Google

The Interstate Broadcasting Treaty was replaced by the Interstate Media
Treaty in November 2020. According to this, the responsibility for
nationwide offers lies with the state media authority of the respective
federal state (§ 106 Media State Treaty). In the Free State of Saxony, the
Saxon State Authority for Private Broadcasting and New Media, FerdinandLassalle-Strasse 21, 04109 Leipzig, as the state media authority, is the
competent supervisory and administrative authority for administrative
What should I do?
For compliance with the imprint

offenses (Section 1 (2) sentences 2 and 3 of the Saxon Law for the
implementation of the media state treaty and the broadcasting contribution

obligation for telemedia, in
Saxony the Saxon country

state treaty).

agency for private broadcasting and
new media
and responsible as a fine
authority. The Saxon Data Protection

Whether or not there is a fine in the case described cannot be assessed
due to the lack of competence of my authority. However, the homeowner

Officer, on the other hand, does not

concerned is probably primarily concerned with the fact that his rental

check the provider identification

property is not associated with a commercial operation, which could have

obligation, but is responsible for

reduced the attractiveness of his housing offer.

fulfilling the information obligation in
accordance with Articles 13 and 14
GDPR.

6.1.4 Private enforcement and
damages for data breaches
ÿ §§ 3, 3a, 8 UWG; Art. 12ff., 15, 20, 57, 82 GDPR

Behavior in accordance with data protection (data protection
compliance) is a central obligation of every data protection company
responsible. This knows the circumstances of the concrete
Data processing at its best and has a direct influence on it. This is the
most important level of enforcement.
The legal community is dependent on compliance by those responsible
in the area, breadth and depth.
Accordingly, the legal system provides a wide range of enforcement
mechanisms. The incentives generated in this way for those responsible
to comply with the data protection rules are decisive. It is of practical
importance that the sanctions for data protection

breaches must outweigh the additional gains that the controller derives
from ignoring
of its data protection obligations.

148 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

Violations of data protection law are therefore subject to severe sanctions
– fines of up to 20 million
n euros or 4 percent of the worldwide annual turnover and
up to three years imprisonment.
Parallel to such sovereign sanction options, those affected by the illegal
data processing have claims for compensation for their material and
immaterial damage, Art. 82 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

Irrespective of damage and sanctions, there are also direct claims by
the person concerned and – with regard to data protection standards,
which at the same time represent a market conduct regulation within the
meaning of Section 3a of the German Act Against Unfair Competition
(UWG) – also by competitors and others authorized to enforce rights.

In some cases, the person concerned's own first steps are a prerequisite
for official proceedings.
In addition, private lawmaking has various advantages, not least in terms
of speed, range of enforcement of claims and broad effect on compliance
across the board. In this respect, private enforcement complements
official enforcement.

In related areas of law, private enforcement of rights is of substantial
and often increasing importance. In data protection law, it is already
becoming apparent today that
the GDPR will become the basis for a similar development
should. In this way the means to the through multiply
regulation of data protection law, which in turn benefits the protection
purposes of data protection law.
(Provable) assertion of the rights of those affected as a
procedural precondition
Those affected often ask me to assert their rights against the actual
person responsible or to request their corresponding claims directly

to fill.

Activity Report 2021

| 149

Machine Translated by Google

However, the GDPR provides rights for the majority of those
affected under Art. 12ff. first assert the claims directly against
the person responsible; this applies in particular to the right to
information and a copy, Art.
15, 20 GDPR. Accordingly, I can usually only take action if the
person responsible does not (or at least plausibly prove)
respond to corresponding requests from the data subject (or
does not do so in a timely manner).
In a large number of such complaints, the object of the
complaint is resolved when the person concerned is informed
of the need to (provably) assert their rights against the person
responsible and this
caught up.

False denial by a person responsible, ent
Having received speaking inquiries, on the other hand,
constitutes an independent serious data protection violation
punishable by a fine or penalty, in addition to that
regularly also existing failure to meet deadlines.
The false assertion of facts to the supervisory authority attacks
the supervision at its roots.
Accordingly, such (suspected) cases would be mine
special attention and would give special prosecution

enjoy priority.
Insofar as the complaint raises the suspicion in relation to a
person responsible that he or she leaves inquiries received
unanswered or withholds them, I am authorized to carry out
appropriate searches.
In the case of (deliberate) false allegations to the authorities by
(allegedly) affected persons or whistleblowers, there is regularly
false suspicion, which is punishable under Section 164 of the
Criminal Code. Incorrect information provided by the person
responsible is a violation of the cooperation requirement and the
obligation to provide information, which is subject to a fine, and
can be punishable under Section 42 of the Federal Data
Protection Act (BDSG), among other things. If the suspicion is
substantiated, the importance of truthful information to the

supervisory authority for the supervisory authority requires appropriate criminal p
cause.

150 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

Advantages of private law enforcement
All individual rights under data protection law

are directly entitled to the person concerned, i.e. can directly
be asserted before the civil courts. Besides
are directly subordinate to competitors, among others
claims against those responsible who compete against the market
behavior regulations of the
violate data protection law.
Such private legal enforcement has a number of advantages.

This is particularly evident in areas in which the authority of the authorities
and the scope of data protection law do not or only partially address the
problematic facts

wisely covered.
This is supported in particular by the sometimes significantly faster
enforcement of rights through civil legal remedies such as temporary
orders and warnings for private enforcement of rights.

Also, my authority is usually further away from the place

suspected data protection violations removed as the data subject
and the locally competent civil courts, which determine the facts and
possible solutions
can lighten.
A data subject affected by data protection violations is able to sue the
controller before the court responsible for his or her own place of
residence without a decision from the possibly reticent supervisory
authority at the controller's headquarters

to wait and see.
Finally, the reliable judicial finding,
that for certain data breaches a damage
replacement is owed, appropriate practices promptly and
effective also in width. Although an ent
speaking judgment only between the parties. However, the scope of a
well-reasoned damages judgment is not limited to the parties or the
jurisdiction of the
sentencing court. Rather, such a
Radiation effects unfold, with official

Activity Report 2021

| 151

Machine Translated by Google

decisions can only be made to a limited extent. Because the limited
resources of the supervisory authorities are well known and
sometimes influence location decisions
from data processing companies.

In addition, judgments on damages have the advantage that the
injured party receives direct compensation for the damage suffered,
while official decisions for the person concerned with regard to past
violations can at best be immaterial satisfaction and the basis for a
claim for damages.

Example: video surveillance by neighbors
Complaints about video surveillance from neighbors often fail
because a data protection violation cannot be determined. Because
the application of data protection laws requires specific unjustified
processing of personal data. The limits of permissible video
surveillance beyond one's own property under data protection law
are narrow; monitoring of the neighbor is not permitted in this respect
(cf. also 2.2.52.2.5).

However, my agency's investigative powers are limited in relation to
residential premises. Especially in the case of remote-controlled video
cameras and so-called dome cameras, videography that has been
checked by me and is permissible under data protection law can also
be changed without any special effort in such a way that data
protection violations take place after the recording field has been
changed. After all, I'm not responsible for dummy cameras due to a
lack of data processing.
On the other hand, a claim for injunctive relief under neighborhood
law can also exist if third parties only objectively have a serious
reason to fear surveillance by surveillance cameras (“surveillance
pressure”). This also includes dummies in particular.

It is true that the precise individual case must be taken into account.
In administrative and administrative offense proceedings, however, in
Kern the authority the evidence of a data protection violation

to lead. In contrast, in the neighborhood lawsuit, the

152 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

the one who uses the camera or dummy camera is heavily
burdened with the burden of proof and presentation.
The established neighborhood law requirements of the civil
courts are stringent in this respect:
“The fear of being monitored by existing surveillance
devices is justified if it appears comprehensible and
understandable on the basis of specific circumstances,
for example with regard to a
escalating dispute between neighbors or due to
circumstances that objectively arouse suspicion. If such
circumstances exist, the personal rights of the
(supposedly) monitored person may be impaired simply
because of the suspicious situation. However, the mere
hypothetical possibility of surveillance by video cameras
and similar surveillance devices does not affect the
general personal rights of those who could be affected.
Therefore, the installation of a surveillance system on
private property is not unlawful if it is objectively certain
that public and third-party private areas are not covered,
if such a detection is only possible through an externally
perceptible technical change to the system and if other
rights are also granted third parties will not be adversely
affected.”

Federal Court of Justice (BGH), judgment of March 16, 2010 - VI ZR 176/09;
cf. also District Court of Frankenthal (Palatinate), judgment of December 16,
2020 - 2 S 195/19

“When installing video surveillance systems on private
property, it must be ensured that neither adjacent public
areas nor neighboring private properties are captured by
the cameras. Something else only applies in individual
cases if, when weighing up personal rights, it can be
assumed that the operator of the system has an overriding
interest.”

Koblenz District Court, decision of September 5th, 2019 - 13 S 17/19

Activity Report 2021

| 153

Machine Translated by Google

The person concerned (possibly not under data protection law)
can follow these established lines of jurisdiction
Neighbor obtain an immediately enforceable title from the
locally competent court within a few days in the preliminary
injunction proceedings and, if necessary, have it enforced
promptly with the support of the bailiff, without
it would depend on data protection violations and their proof.

On the other hand, if those affected choose to complain to my
authority, the – more extensively required – factual determination
is often significantly more time-consuming. If no data protection
violation can be determined, private enforcement of the law
after official proceedings have been carried out remains the
only option for neighbors who object to cameras or cameras
want to ward off dummies and the monitoring pressure they
emanate.
Ultimately, in view of the far-reaching legal requirements for
videography in the neighborhood, a legal dispute will often be
unnecessary. Addressing the videotaping neighbor directly can
help prevent the (further) deterioration in the relationship
between the neighbors, which can result from the complaint to
the supervisory authority
authorities or a court case. Besides
is for Saxon facts in particular on the Ver

drive before the magistrate to point out that for such
neighborhood disputes offers a low-threshold and consensual
conflict resolution option.
Example: data protection in the press area
and media law
My powers of supervision and intervention in the field of
journalistic activities are defined by Section 11a Clause 4 of
the Saxon Press Act (SächsPresseG) in conjunction with Art.
85 GDPR significantly restricted.
Accordingly, I am not authorized to monitor companies and
auxiliary companies of the press in terms of data protection,
insofar as they process personal data for journalistic or literary
purposes. Because of the importance of media privilege for
public discourse and

154 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

the functioning of democracy, this exception is to be interpreted broadly
and is fundamentally independent of journalistic quality or independence.

That standard also severely restricts the rights of data subjects under
the GDPR. However, there are a number of rights under press and
media law that give those affected some related rights, albeit to a limited
extent in view of the importance of freedom of the press, information and
opinion.

Claims under press and media law for injunctive relief, counterstatement,
revocation and correction of a specific report, as well as for damages,
have similar effects to the corresponding claims under data protection
law.

However, they are completely independent of data protection law and
can only be enforced privately. Although this is not an enforcement of
data protection law, these claims serve closely related protective
purposes and fill a gap in protection created by the exception rule.

Example: Unfair competition by
data breaches
Violations of data protection law can constitute unfair acts in competition.
Competitors, relevant associations with legal capacity, qualified
institutions within the meaning of the Injunctive Relief Act and the
Chambers of Industry/Commerce/Chambers of Crafts can, in principle,
take action independently and in their own right against the person
responsible for such legal violations, §§ 3, 3a,

8 UWG. A data protection self-affected is
not mandatory.

In this respect, it is disputed whether and which data protection
legal rules represent a so-called market conduct regulation and justify
corresponding claims for injunctive relief and claims for damages under
fair competition law. However, the courts have established a fairly farreaching line of jurisprudence here, which is largely based on the old

Activity Report 2021

| 155

Machine Translated by Google

Legal situation developed judicature builds. For example, a number of
higher courts have confirmed corresponding claims (cf. OLG Hamburg,
judgment of October 25th, 2018 - 3 U 66/17; OLG Munich, judgment of
March 21st, 2019 - 6 U 3377/18; OLG Naumburg, judgments of November
7th, .2019 - 9 U 6/19 and 9 U 39/18; OLG Stuttgart, judgment of February
27th, 2020 - 2 U 257/19).
Under the old legal situation, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) had
answered the previous question of the so-called blocking effect of legal
remedies under data protection law in the negative (ECJ, judgment of
July 29, 2019, case no. C-40/17). In the reporting period, the Federal
Court of Justice again submitted this question to the ECJ under the new
legal situation (BGH, decision of May 28, 2020 - I ZR 186/17; registered
at the ECJ under C-319/20, Facebook Ireland Limited vs. Bundesverband
der
Consumer centers and consumer associations - Consumption
Central Federal Association eV). Accordingly, a binding supreme court
decision is pending, which could eliminate the existing uncertainty.

The fair enforcement of data protection regulations without self-affecting
has a number of significant advantages over official action. However,
measures and sanctions by the data protection supervisory authorities
can certainly be based on corresponding findings.

In this way, competitors and other claimants make additional resources
available to monitor market-related compliance with data protection rules
without being affected by data protection law themselves, and

such as data protection.
In addition, market participants are sometimes more familiar with the
specific data protection problems in their industry than they may not have
been before
involved supervisory authorities.
After all, the usual form of enforcement in this area is the warning, which
can usually lead to the termination of data protection-violating practices
within a few days, which is only rarely successful in official proceedings.

Even if the complete development of private law enforcement in this area
still depends on a – foreseeable –

156 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

final clarification of some legal questions, it can already
be stated today that it is worthwhile
full complement of data protection law enforcement
instruments.
Broad effect and damages for
data breaches
The damage resulting from data protection violations is
usually of an immaterial nature. German courts are
generally very reluctant to award damages for immaterial
damage. However, the GDPR has introduced a completely
new legal basis with Art. 82,
whose effectiveness must of course first develop.

Under Union law, the damage suffered must be fully and
effectively compensated (Recital 146 GDPR). In this
respect, an extensively developed Union law judicature
on the law on damages, in particular after
antitrust law violations.
Because the member states - including the courts dealing
with claims for damages - are obliged, according to the
idea of Art. 4 Para. 2020 – 13 Ca 1046/20).

After initial hesitation, German courts have increasingly
developed a judicature whose awarded damages
sometimes expressly state “dissuasive we
kung” should have. On the other hand, compensation in
money is sometimes rejected if intentional data
breaches of protection have caused not inconsiderable damage.

This contradiction of EU law requirements and German
judicial tradition is illustrated by a data protection-related
decision of the Federal Constitutional Court: A district
court had rejected the claim for damages of a person
affected by an illegal advertising e-mail: Here there was
only a minor impairment that could not justify a claim for
damages . The Federal Constitutional Court overturned
this decision because

Activity Report 2021

| 157

Machine Translated by Google

District Court should not simply assume that there is a
threshold of significance that has not been specified
anywhere. Before the claim for damages is rejected, the
underlying question of interpretation must therefore be
submitted to the European Court of Justice (Federal
Constitutional Court, decision of January 14, 2021 - 1 BvR 28531/19).
Sometimes it is said that those responsible would
through the obligation to replace the immaterial damage caused

excessively and beyond concrete reproaches. This
represents an abstract danger that
repeatedly brought up by interested parties. However, such
a disproportionality is not apparent from specific judgments
and would also be in contrast to the basic characteristics
and other damage compensation weightings of German
courts. Rather, the controller who has complied with his duty
of care and documentation should be able to exculpate
himself without further ado, Art. 82 (3) GDPR.
Finally, when looking at the incentives to act, fines, claims
for damages and damage to reputation multiplied by the
probability of detection, sanctions and conviction represent
the “costs” of a breach. As long as these costs are lower
than the costs of data protection compliance, it’s business
as usual economically rational to undertake suboptimal
compliance efforts. This is especially true if these "costs"
only threaten after the tenure of those responsible within the
company, while the corresponding bonuses are there
to be realised.
Due to their capacity, the data protection authorities can
only impose fines on a fraction of the violations that require
sanctions. Against this background, imposing full and
effective compensation for the (immaterial) damage caused
in this way on those responsible for data protection violations
appears urgently necessary in order to provide sufficient
incentives for appropriate care when processing personal
data.

158 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

The obligation to pay damages also has a direct effect of attracting
attention: because the person responsible must be aware of having to
specifically compensate for damage that arises from the realization of the
risk caused by data processing. Only through an effective and complete
obligation to compensate is the risk assessment under data protection
law not only abstract, but is in reasonable proportion to the resulting ge

put those affected at risk.
A large number of judgments have already been passed across the
country in which the data subject has been awarded not inconsiderable
amounts of compensation for data protection violations. The subject of
the legal infringement that triggered liability was, for example, the
unauthorized disclosure of (sometimes incorrect) personal data to third
parties or their publication, the refusal or late provision of information
required under data protection law.

On the other hand, courts have rejected corresponding claims because
no damage was incurred or demonstrated, it was based on a substantiated
explanation or proof of a data protection violation, its purchase

sality or fault of the person responsible was missing.
The requirement of substantial damage, on which not a few dismissive
judgments are based, is currently subject to an assessment by the ECJ
(see above).
It is true that the person concerned sometimes finds it difficult to access the data

breach of protection, the resulting damage and the
to prove causality between violation and damage. Al
However, Art. 82 (3) GDPR establishes a presumption of fault on the part
of the person responsible, de
ren range is disputed. In addition, it is currently subject to clarification by
the highest court as to the effects of the general accountability of Art. 5
Para. 2, 24 Para ; Appeals are pending at the Federal Court of Justice).

I hope for those affected that clarification will soon be brought about in
their favor.

Activity Report 2021

| 159

Machine Translated by Google

Companies often have a considerable interest in fending off
claims for damages in order to prevent those affected from
asserting their rights. Accordingly, highly qualified lawyers act
on the side of those responsible in court, whose cost-intensive
work can be explained solely by the interest in avoiding
precedent decisions. On the side of those affected, litigation
financiers and specialized consumer lawyers are hesitant to
observe, which is certainly also the case in the
based on the reluctance of the German courts to award
compensation for non-pecuniary damage.
Overall, a new area of law is developing with damages for data
protection violations, which has considerable potential to offer
decentralized incentives for compliance with data protection
law. This is to be welcomed unreservedly, as it supports the
supervisory authorities in their goals of strengthening data
protection.
Effective clarification of open fundamental
questions by the European Court of Justice
However, in order to make the protection of data subjects
effective through claims for damages, some basic questions
still need to be clarified. A comparison with the similar
developments in antitrust law suggests that the effectiveness of
the claims for damages under Art.
82 GDPR will only meet the requirements of the GDPR and
Union law after decades of judicial clarification. A fundamental
lesson from this and related areas is that in areas determined
by Union law
Questions only the European Court of Justice can bring legal
clarity. A corresponding submission offers the first instance
court the possibility, in accordance with Art. 267 of the Treaty
on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), to deal with
questions of data protection and damage compensation law in
a binding, relatively inexpensive and timely manner
to clarify. A variety of both German dishes

as well as courts of other member states of the EU have
benefited from this obligation or possibility of submission in the area of

160 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

Data protection compensation law already use ge
might. Based on these procedures is already the binding
clarification of many open legal questions in the near future
expect.

Right of referral and duty of referral of German courts
Preliminary rulings by the European Court of Justice lead directly to legal
clarity for all legal practitioners within the scope of the GDPR. In Germany,
open legal issues have so far been clarified primarily in lengthy processes
by the courts. In fact, this often leads to the long-term effect of parallel,
often contradictory, lower and higher court decision-making lines with
corresponding legal uncertainties,

process risks and other problems. The Federal Constitution
On the other hand, the Supreme Court has expressly pointed out, also for
the area of the GDPR, that in particular the claim for monetary compensation
for data protection violations has not been fully clarified in the case law of
the Court of Justice of the European Union and that the relevant specialist
courts have a corresponding obligation to refer, specifically the Goslar
District Court (Federal Constitutional Court, decision of January 14, 2021 1 BvR 2853/19).

Many courts have already used this option in data protection law, so that
a large number of preliminary rulings, some of which overlap in terms of
content, are pending in Luxembourg. For example, the Saarbrücken
Regional Court and the Austrian Supreme Court clarify the question of
whether claims for compensation for imma

material damage from data protection violations is a minimum
threshold or demonstrable damage
(Saarbrücken Regional Court decision of November 22, 2021 - 5 O 151/19
= ECJ C-741/21 and Supreme Court of the Republic of Austria, decision of
April 15, 2021 - 6 Ob 35/21x = ECJ C-154/21). In contrast, many other
German (upper) courts have ruled without regard to the special

nationalities and the autonomy of Union law German law
Common principles applied, and thus de facto legal protection

Activity Report 2021

| 161

Machine Translated by Google

made difficult or even impossible. Against this background, the
Federal Constitutional Court is a reminder of the duty of courts
of last instance to make a submission, and the possibility of
making a submission for all courts, including the local and
regional courts, is emphasized.
The Saxon Data Protection Commissioner urges the responsible
courts to use the opportunity to refer matters to the European
Court of Justice in cases of doubt and thus contribute to
increasing legal clarity. As a result, and by suspending
proceedings until the ECJ has made a decision in referral
proceedings with the same problem, unnecessary stages of
appeal and many other processes can be avoided.
Last but not least, the legal clarity that can be achieved in this way can also

Make data protection compliance much easier for all legal users,
including controllers.
Advisory mandate of the Saxon data protection
officer and broad impact
My authority is neither responsible for the assessment of data
protection claims for damages nor claims for injunctive relief
under neighbour, press or fair competition law.
However, as part of my advisory and clarification mandate under
Article 57 Paragraph 1 Letter b, e, i, v GDPR, I am obliged to
inform those affected, those responsible and the public about
data protection and to monitor the corresponding developments.
What should I do?
Direct enforcement of

However, through specific or general information on the

Data protection law can

possibilities of private legal enforcement, external resources,

Have a number of advantages,

such as those affected and those responsible, can

especially for those affected.
For some rights sees that
Data protection law already one
primary obligation of the person
concerned to assert this directly

Appropriate consultants and competent civil courts can also be
used to enforce data protection law
be made.
It is not just in the areas listed as examples that individuals can

against the person responsible.

enforce their rights, if necessary with the support of relevant
In the neighboring law are civil

interest groups such as consumer advice centres, but also in the

procedural means sometimes much
sharper and more effective than
regulatory investigative and remedial

Participate in clarifying open questions and eliminate data protection

powers.

violations effectively and sustainably.

162 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

Especially in case constellations in which there is a broad effect
me practices are not privacy compliant while the
competent supervisory authority remains inactive, private enforcement is
recommended as a more effective means of helping data protection law
to apply in practice. This data protection compliance, in turn, is a central
goal of my work.

6.2 Figures and data
on the activities in 2021

6.2.1 Overview of the main areas of work
As in the previous reporting period, my department again recorded the
largest number of complaints and requests for advice – around 45 percent
altogether.
Furthermore, formed the cooperation with the German
regulators a priority. The lively exchange on data protection topics
continues, as does the increase in reports of data protection violations in
Figure 2:
Main areas of work

accordance with Article 33 of the General Data Protection Regulation.

according to the number of processes

Press
inquiries 1%

administrative
offenses 3%

EU/International
5%
other 7%

Complaints
24%

General administration
7%
Cooperation
with German

regulatory authorities

15%
reports from

Data breaches 17%
Consultations 21%

Activity Report 2021

| 163

Machine Translated by Google

6.2.2 Complaints and Notices
The number of complaints in the reporting period was at the high level
of the previous year. Since the General Data Protection Regulation
came into effect in 2018, the number of complaints and reports received
each year has more than doubled.
While submissions in the public sector fell in 2021, they increased in
the non-public sector compared to 2020.

1.400
1.279

1.254

1.247
1.176

1.200

1.000

910
819

770

800

744
597

600

503
376

400

484

387

357

221

200

0

2020201920182017 2021

Number of complaints to telemedia
Figure 3:
complaints and notices
public area
non-public area

In this reporting period, too, there was a consistently high volume of
complaints in the field of telemedia. A total of over 80 complaints were
received, most of which were justified. Most of the complaints were

total complaints

directed against Saxon website operators who had integrated cookies
and tracking elements into their websites without consent or who
transmit visitor data to third countries such as the USA. Far fewer
complaints were filed in 2021 due to a lack of encryption on websites;
here it can be assumed that the majority of website operators meanwhile

uses reliable transport encryption. The

164 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

Despite the efforts to automate it that started last year (see TB 2020;
4.1.1 Testing tools for websites and requirements for website operators,
page 115f.), the processing of complaints is still laborious in terms of
Activity report 2020: ÿ
sdb.de/tb2020

preparation and the procedure with the respective companies
responsible. In advance, all data processing taking place on a website
(inclusion of third-party resources, cookies and other technologies) as
well as the website's data protection declaration must be analyzed and
evaluated, which is often very time-consuming due to the sheer number
of technologies used. It is not uncommon for more than 20 cookies to
be set when the home page of an individual website is called up and for
connections to up to 40 third-party servers to take place.

which receive all visitor data. In the process of

Those responsible are then often provided with extensive documents
such as contract data processing contracts and other agreements,
which in turn have to be evaluated. Those affected are regularly
informed about the status of the process and can contact my authority
at any time if they have any questions.

6.2.3 Consultations
The digitization of almost all areas of life continues. Consequently, more
and more personal
data processed. What is allowed here and how the data
citizens are to be protected was a frequent topic in talks with those
responsible in 2021. Overall, the number of consultations rose by more
than 9 percent to 1,112 compared to the previous reporting period. That
was almost as many as in 2018, when the Da

General Data Protection Regulation came into effect. The increase is
due to information provided to both the public and the non-public sector.
Many inquiries were related to the coronavirus pandemic and are also
listed as examples in this activity report (see 1.1, 2.2.10, 2.4.1).

Activity Report 2021

| 165

Machine Translated by Google

1.200

1.133

1.112

1.019

1.000
884
834

800
687
608

600
446

446
368

368

400

240

228
185

200
62
0

2020201920182017 2021

Figure 4:
consultations
public area

6.2.4 Data Breaches
ÿ Art. 33 GDPR

non-public area

The number of reports of data breaches pursuant to Art. 33

consultations total

of the General Data Protection Regulation has increased
steadily since the General Data Protection Regulation
came into force on May 25, 2018. In addition to the
registration, the reports must be evaluated and, if necessary,
categorized for supervisory follow-up work. Article 4.4.1
provides an overview of the content-related processes.

6.2.5 Cooperation with European
supervisory authorities - Internal
Market Information System
ÿ Art. 56, 60, 61, 64 GDPR; Regulation (EU) 1024/2012

The data protection supervisory authorities in the European

Union coordinate their Zu in cross-border cases
cooperation according to Articles 60 to 67 of data protection

Basic Regulation through the so-called Internal Market
Information System (IMI).
It is a web-based network for
exchange of information and for cooperation

166 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

public bodies, which is provided by the Commission of the European
Activity report 2020: ÿ
sdb.de/tb2020

Union (see also Activity Report 2020, Item 6.2.5, page 144). Details of
this administrative cooperation are set out in Regulation (EU) No.

1024/2012 (IMI Regulation).
In the IMI, information about the procedures set up there, the so-called
IMI notifications, is also sent to me every day. I get between 10 and 20
such messages every day. I check whether I am the leading supervisory
authority or just (co-)affected, and - if I am the supervisory authority
affected - whether

I am involved in proceedings of other supervisory authorities on the subject

stand or would like to comment on decisions. I will also be informed about
how other supervisory authorities are involved
handle certain cases.
A total of 2,367 procedures were discontinued in the IMI system in 2021
with the participation of German (lead or only affected) supervisory
authorities. Of these, 128 were reinstated (statistical information from
November 4th, 2021).
I, too, was involved in a variety of procedures as well
ne supervisory authority involved. As lead supervisor
authority I have two procedures in the reporting period
taken because the respective companies have their main office in
Saxony. Saxony is in six
procedure in charge. I have a case to the pen
leading supervisory authority of another member state in a procedure
pursuant to Art. 56 GDPR.
Since July 2021, the German supervisory authorities have also been using it

the IMI module "Internal Written Procedure" (IWP) for their internal
coordination in written procedures of the European Data Protection Board
(EDPB). In this way, they create common positions in accordance with
Section 18 of the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG). In this context,
among other things, I gave my vote for statements by the EDPB

on binding internal regulations of companies
("Binding Corporate Rules"), on requirements for the accreditation of
certification bodies (Art. 64 Para. 1 Sentence 2 Letter c of the General
Data Protection Regulation) or for Ant

Activity Report 2021

| 167

Machine Translated by Google

Written letters to various institutions of the European Union. I assume
that in future the number of complaints from data subjects in the European

Union and also in Saxony and thus also the number of
cross-border procedures in IMI will continue to increase.

6.2.6 Register of Designated
Data Protection Officers
ÿ Art. 37 para. 1 and 7 GDPR

In the reporting period, 1,015 reports on appointed data protection
officers were received in my department. These notifications included
notifications on the appointment of official and company data protection
officers (DPO), on changes or on the termination of this function.

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) provides
Art. 37 (1) obliges the controller (public bodies in general; non-public
bodies under certain conditions) to appoint a data protection officer

to name. According to Art. 37 Para. 7 of the GDPR, a Ver

responsible or a processor not only to publish the contact details of the
data protection officer,
but also to notify the supervisory authority. The documentary
mentation of the designation and the fulfillment of the reporting obligation is the
responsibility of the person responsible.

The messages sent are used by the specialist departments of my
authority, among other things, to check compliance with the reporting
obligation pursuant to Art. 37 (7) GDPR or the possible existence of
conflicts of interest pursuant to Art. 38 (6) GDPR.

6.2.7 Formal monitoring
of legislative projects
ÿ Art. 36 Para. 4 GDPR

According to Art. 36 Para. 4 of the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR), the Free State of Saxony has me in the preparation of a draft
law or a statutory ordinance

168 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

to consult the draft relating to the processing of personal data. During
the reporting period, my
Authority introduced during the process of legislative projects. In Saxony,
for example, these included statements on the law on the further
development of municipal law, the Transparency Act, the amendment to
the Higher Education Freedom Act and the ordinance based on the
Information Security Act and the Infection Protection Act. My predecessor
also dealt with legislative projects for Germany and Europe.

This related, among other things, to the Register Modernization Act, the
evaluation of the Federal Data Protection Act and the Telecommunications
and Telemedia Data Protection Act (TTDSG).

6.2.8 Resources
Activity report 2020: ÿ sdb.de/
tb2020

Since the General Data Protection Regulation came into force, I have
seen a continuous increase in the workload
in my office. On the grounds is my presiding officer
already received several times (cf. activity report 2020, 6.3, page 145f.).

Figure 5:

Since the Covid 19 pandemic, the workload has increased again

volume of documents

clearly increased. In the reporting period, 16,453 Post

total written material
inboxes

incoming and 22,111 outgoing mail registered. The amount of written

Mail outputs

material was almost at the record level of 2020.

25.000 25000

22.559

22.111

18.897
20.000
20000
17.152

16.453

17.775
15.000
15000

12.839
13.984

13.179

10.000
10000
9.360
5.407

4.913

5.658

5.000
5000
4.596

3.479
00

2020201920182017 2021 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021

Activity Report 2021

| 169

Machine Translated by Google

As in previous years, my authority was not able to fully fulfill the statutory
tasks. The staffing situation in my authority has eased as a result of the
eight new posts assigned to me in the reporting period. I would like to
thank the members of the Saxon state parliament for this.

However, due to the passing of the 2021/22 budget in June 2021, I was
only able to do so in the second
Half of the reporting period actually filled
begin the procedure. The development of personnel over the past few
years, as of December 31, is as follows:

• 2017: 22 posts
• 2018: 24 posts
• 2019: 28 posts
• 2020: 31 posts
• 2021: 39 posts
Figure 6:
increases in important

From 2017 to the end of 2021, the annual number of new cases in key

areas of activity

areas of activity more than tripled (Figure 6). I hope that I can adequately
reports from

cope with the consistently high number of complaints and advice given

data breaches

with a fully staffed department.

consultations
complaints

3.500

3.288
2.901

3.000

2.555
2.359

2.500

2.000

1.500

1.043
1.000

500

0

2020201920182017 2021

170 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

In important areas of activity such as the processing of
Complaints, reports of data breaches and consultations
have resulted in the understaffing of the
Department revealed last year. Specifically: before

It was often only possible to complete work with a delay
of several months, unprovoked data protection controls
were unfortunately only carried out to a limited extent and
speaker activities at various specialist and further training
events could only be carried out to a limited extent. (see
6.5.2). Furthermore, old cases from previous years still
have to be processed. This is a situation that is difficult to
understand, especially for the persons concerned, whose
data may therefore be processed unlawfully over a longer
period of time, especially since I
I am entitled to advise citizens, business and administration
earlier and more comprehensively. Prevention is known
much better than intervention.

Successful employee training
In my office, four employees are now qualified as expert
assessors from the German Accreditation Body GmbH
(DAkkS), the national accreditation body of the Federal
Republic of Germany based in Berlin. They are thus
qualified to participate in the accreditation of certification
bodies and meet the requirements for issuing certificates
in the area of data protection in accordance with the
General Data Protection Regulation.

Activity Report 2021

| 171

Machine Translated by Google

Saxon

official

Data Protection Officer

Data Protection Officer

Deputy

Data Protection Officer
• Household Officer

Unit 1

Unit 2

Unit 3

• Information
technology
• Media •

• Non-public

• Municipal •

• Justice

Area •
Public

Healthcare • E-

• Police •

Government • Social •

Protection of the Constitution

Judiciary/

Unit 4

Administration

• Principle
• Legal

Services •
Administration • Public Accreditation/
work
certification

Service law

Statistics • Science

• Employee
data protection

Administration

• Personal

• Budget •
Organization
• Register •
Secretariat

Figure 7:
Simplified organization chart
of the authority

6.3 Data protection
supervisory powers,
administrative decisions
6.3.1 Utilization of the
right to refuse information
ÿ Section 40 (4) sentence 2 BDSG, Section 383 (1) No. 1 to 3 ZPO, Article
58 (1) (a) and (4) GDPR, Article 31 GDPR

According to Art. 58 Para. 1 Letter a General Data Protection Regulation

Regulation (DSGVO), the supervisory authority can instruct the
person responsible to provide all information that is necessary for
required to perform their duties. The term

172 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

“Information” includes the provision of documents or files.
Art. 31 GDPR corresponds to this provision and obliges
the person responsible to comply with the
to cooperate with the supervisory authority and to assist them in fulfilling

to support them in their tasks. However, due to the rule
of law clause in Art. 58 Para

information itself would incriminate. This information
The right to refuse can be found - in this respect initially
limited to cases of pure provision of information - in
Section 40 Para. 4 Sentence 2 of the Federal Data
Protection Act (BDSG), according to which the person
obliged to provide information can refuse to provide
information on questions to which he himself or one of
the persons listed in Section 383 Para 1 no criminal
procedural principles. The prerequisite for exercising the
right to refuse information is that the request for
information or the provision of information relates to
behavior that could constitute a criminal offense or an
administrative offence. If the supervisory authority asks
about various facts, it must

be differentiated accordingly.
From practice: cooperation better than
refusal to provide information

That's the theory. Apparently, the possibility of this right
to refuse information in practice occasionally tempts one
to evade the provision of information to the supervisory
authority – which appears to be rather time-consuming –
or one associates the
Hope that the supervisory authority will be satisfied with
this and that in this way one can avoid being punished
for a potential violation.

Activity Report 2021

| 173

Machine Translated by Google

The following example shows that this hope can be deceptive and that it
can ultimately lead to even greater trouble and effort:

A petitioner had given the supervisor two dome cameras
shown on private property used for residential purposes. A camera was
placed on the front next to the entrance to the house and aimed at it and
possibly also at the street a few meters in front of it; the second camera
was on the rear balcony in an exposed location on a probably extra
reason there

erected mast. Directly behind the marked by a fence
A hiking trail led along the tenth property line.
The – legally represented – person responsible had to Auf
demand of the supervisory authority merely claims that
neither third-party property nor public traffic areas
would be under video surveillance. He had not provided any additional
information required, nor had he provided any evidence/documents
requested in this regard,
in particular, no screenshots of the camera images
laid. Instead, after being asked to do so again, he made use of his right
to refuse information. An on-site review of the facts was not possible
because there was no access due to the lack of commercial use

right for the supervisory authority existed.
To the extent that it was assumed that the responsible person's assertion
that he was not monitoring any areas outside his own property was true,
invoking the right to refuse information would have been unlawful.
Because if the video surveillance was actually limited to his own property,
by answering the questions of the supervisory authority he would not
have been subject to dangerous criminal or administrative offense
prosecution

exposed.
In view of this, the further – then formal – claim against the person
responsible for the provision of information/information came into
consideration. However, it was foreseeable that - because of the expected
judicial clarification - no reliable ones would be forthcoming in the near
future

174 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

and result corresponding to the actual conditions
se could be achieved. The person responsible would also be
always been able to subsequently legally compliant
create conditions and only then to the supervisory authority

answer.

Administrative offense proceedings and
search warrants The transition to
administrative offense proceedings appeared to be more effective in
the present case. In view of the use of the right to refuse information,
there were indications that areas outside one's own

property were under video surveillance. Within an order
criminal proceedings, this could then be checked at short notice with a
corresponding search warrant and, if necessary, proven and also
punished.
In fact, the investigating magistrate at the competent local court issued
a search and confiscation order, which the supervisory authority and the
local police finally executed a few weeks later in the early hours of the
morning.

The visibly surprised homeowner was cooperative – probably also to
avoid extensive (but still permissible) intrusions and insights into his
private sphere. Even if the cameras were no longer active at the time of
the search, the homeowner agreed to the storage media previously used
for video recordings being secured, so that confiscation was not
necessary. The outcome of the proceedings was still open at the time
this report went to press because the data carriers had not yet been
evaluated.

Nevertheless, the conclusion should be drawn from the description of
this supervisory case that making use of the right to refuse information
needs to be carefully considered. Although not every situation will be
able to justify such drastic investigative measures, it cannot actually be
assumed that a supervisory procedure will simply deal with the

Activity Report 2021

| 175

Machine Translated by Google

What should I do?

A claim of
Right to refuse information

assertion of the right to refuse information. Anyone who instead
– especially as a private individual – cooperates with the

in the supervisory process

supervisory authority from the outset and also sees a supervisory

must be carefully considered

procedure as an opportunity to use video surveillance

by the beneficiaries. Note: In

to make the investigation legally secure will hardly run the risk

the case of particularly farreaching violations, however,

of being fined for it.

cooperation with the supervisory
authority, a fine cannot be ruled
out.

6.3.2 Penalty payment for refusal to provide information
ÿ § 19 para. 2 sentence 1 SächsVwVG, Art. 58 para. 1 letter a GDPR

A Saxon commune published in their community

despiegel a letter from the Saxony State Directorate (LDS),
without blacking out the name and contact details of the contact
person in the LDS. After I was informed of the publication, my
authority asked the municipality to name a legal basis or
otherwise, for example, to black out a publication on the Internet
and to sensitize their employees accordingly to future
publications. My predecessor

had to remind him of his letter several times.
Finally, the municipality initially denied the necessity of having
to name my authority a legal basis for the processing of
personal data and later had a lawyer commissioned to inform
me that on the one hand this was in the Saxon Data Protection
Act
(SächsDSG) can be found, on the other hand there is a basis
for authorization for interventions in individual rights
Official officials anyway not needed, since there is such a one
due to a lack of individual rights. My authority replied that the
SächsDSG was not applicable at the time of publication (rather,
due to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), it was
replaced by the SächsDSDG with significantly different
regulations), and the rest of the presentation corresponds to
current case law. Rather, fundamental rights apply to civil
servants in the context of the employment relationship in the
same way and not just to a lesser extent.

176 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

My authority then announced that the municipality would use
Official decision to use for information and the ent
to enforce the relevant administrative act using coercive
measures in the form of a fine of EUR 500 in accordance with
Section 19 (2) sentence 1 of the Administrative Enforcement Act
for the Free State of Saxony (SächsVwVG). This announcement
finally resulted in the commune acknowledging that names had
not been redacted
in the published letter of the LDS he accidentally

followed and this is carried out in the event of a publication on
the Internet (which has not yet taken place).

6.4 Fines and Sanctions,
Criminal Proceedings
6.4.1 Administrative offense
proceedings in the public sector
In the reporting period, the Saxon data protection officer was
responsible for prosecuting and punishing administrative
offenses in the public sector
• § 38 Para. 1 Saxon Data Protection Act old version (§ 38
Para. 3 Sentence 1 SächsDSG old version),
• Section 22 (1) of the Saxon Data Protection Implementation
Act (Section 22 (3) of the Saxon GDPR),
• Section 48 Paragraph 1 of the Saxon Data Protection Implementation Act

(Art. 48 Para. 3 Sentence 1
SächsDSUG), • Art. 83 General Data Protection Regulation
(Art. 58 Para. 2 Letter i GDPR, Section 14 Para – in
connection with § 41 Federal Data Protection Act, Art. 83
Para. 5 General Data Protection Regulation (Art. 58 Para.
2 Letter i GDPR, § 14 Para. 1 SächsDSDG).

In the reporting period, a total of 93 fine proceedings were
pending in the public sector. Of these, 15 were completed with
a fine. 3 procedures are after lodged

Activity Report 2021

| 177

Machine Translated by Google

An objection to the fine has been submitted to the competent district
court. A decision is still pending. In 22 proceedings, a discontinuation
took place or the prosecution was refrained from. 56 procedures were
still being processed at the end of the reporting period.

reporting period

01.01.–31.12.2021

pending total

93

of that

Procedure from previous reporting period

55

new procedures

38

37

completed
of that

with fine

15

with warning money

0

discontinued/absent from prosecution

22

still in progress

56

Total fines and warnings imposed in euros

8.250

Table 1:
Administrative offenses
proceedings in public
Area

The sum of the fines and warnings imposed amounted to 8,250 euros,
that of the final fines to 6,920 euros.
Compared to the previous reporting period, the number of new
administrative offense procedures has almost doubled. Despite this,
twice as many procedures were completed compared to the 2020
reporting period, mainly due to an increase in personnel, which in turn
resulted in a higher sum

of the imposed fines.

The corona pandemic, which lasted during the reporting period, and
However, the associated temporary limited functionality of the authority
and the constantly increasing processing effort in the area of
administrative offenses continued to have a negative effect in the long
term
of the procedure.

178 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

Proceedings mainly against police officers
Once again, in a large proportion (approx. 75 percent) of
the administrative offense proceedings, officers of the
Saxon police were/are suspected of having accessed
unauthorized personal data in electronic information
systems that are only available for official purposes and
not generally accessible, or personal data in them to have
processed the connection without permission.
Furthermore, employees of various (social) authorities in
Saxony were suspected of having processed non-public
personal data without authorisation.
The proceedings concluded with a legally binding fine in
the reporting period all related to unauthorized retrieval of
non-obvious personal data from the police databases
(Section 38 (1) No. 1a SächsDSG old version) and/or
unauthorized processing of non-obvious personal data ( §
38 Para. 1 No. 1a SächsDSG old version) by police officers.

Mostly privately motivated data retrieval
The persistently large number of administrative offense
proceedings against Saxon police officers results, on the
one hand, from the above-average reporting behavior of
the police departments, which violate data protection regulations
rigorously pursue violations – also under employment law
– but also indicates that there are still ambiguities in the
related to the use of police databases. It is regularly a
matter of privately motivated data retrieval from the police
information systems on friends, colleagues, neighbors or
other acquaintances, but also research on one's own
person. As already explained in detail in previous activity
reports, the entire police service may only process the
personal data that is required to fulfill its tasks (section 53
of the Saxon Police Service Act (SächsPVDG) in
conjunction with section 3 of the SächsDSUG).
Thus, the individual police officer is only entitled

Activity Report 2021

| 179

Machine Translated by Google

to process the data required to fulfill his specific official
task. An official authority and necessity are mandatory
requirements for every processing and for every retrieval
of personal data from the police databases. Moreover, it
would be unrealistic and absurd to assume that police
officers could seriously assume that it is permissible to
find out, for example, whether friends or acquaintances
are friends or acquaintances by querying police files
without an official reason
or they themselves are recorded in police proceedings
simply because such research is technically possible in
the police databases. Personal curiosity or private
motivation therefore does not replace the authorization
required to process and/or retrieve non-obvious personal
data.
The public's trust in the reliability of the authorities can
already be severely damaged by mere incorrect handling
of personal data by public authorities. The

Punishment of administrative offenses in the public sector
is essential.

6.4.2 Administrative offense
proceedings in the non-public area
During the reporting period, my agency recorded 81 new ones

Reports of administrative offenses – the number was
thus essentially at the level of the previous year. Almost
two thirds of the advertisements (52) related to the
production of video recordings: stationary cameras (34),
dashcams (12), mobile phone and photo recordings (6).
This means that the main focus (64 percent) of the
administrative offense reports I receive is still clearly on
video surveillance (previous year: 56 percent).

180 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

A total of 207 administrative offense proceedings were
pending in the reporting period. Of these, my predecessor
was able to close 73 cases and 23 fines
fix.

reporting period

01.01.–31.12.2021

pending total

207

of that

Procedure from previous reporting period

126

new procedures

81

73

completed
of that

with fine

23

discontinued/absent from prosecution

50

still in progress

134

Total imposed fines in euros

7.550

Table 2:
Administrative offenses
do not proceed in the
public area

Dashcams

19 fines related to the illegal use of dash cams by private
individuals; their amount ranged between 100 and 1,000
euros (totalling 6,250 euros). Insofar as dashcams were
only minor violations or prosecution of the impermissible
dashcam use was waived for other reasons, I have

discontinued the fine proceedings and instead issued
a warning in accordance with Article 58 (2) (b) of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or issued
a corresponding notice (Article 58 (1) (d) GDPR).
Videography by private
individuals The remaining four fines (a total of 1,300
euros) also affected private individuals. In three cases, my

authority punished inadmissible video recordings. In one of those ca
the person concerned had a wildlife camera on their property

installed to allow a third party to submit their statements

Activity Report 2021

| 181

Machine Translated by Google

after stalked, to convict. However, the camera was aligned in such a way
that it also captured the public traffic area in front of the property and at
the same time recorded the conversations on the neighboring property
right next to it. The affected neighbors or their guests were not captured
by image, but by audio

been identified and could be identified without a doubt
become. Since they had not filed a criminal complaint, this matter was
prosecuted as an administrative offence. The two
other video cases involved video recordings of a tenant
with a camera in the inner courtyard of a large residential property, as
well as secret video recordings with a mobile phone during a court
hearing. Finally, the fourth proceeding was directed against the former
owner of a fitness studio, who had publicly apologized via Facebook for
the delay in opening his studio at the time, but at the same time shifted
the blame by disclosing further personal data to a named employee and
thus to him had exposed and denounced to the club members.

Search and confiscation orders In the activity reports for
2019 (page 126ff.) and 2020 (page 154ff.), my predecessor reported a
house search in connection with a very extensive

Reported use of dash cams. Also in the reporting period
my authority obtained a through in a dashcam case
search and confiscation decision, but the situation here was completely
different: the starting point was verbal insults by the person concerned,
which in principle is a criminal offence, against the crew of a radio patrol
car who was on another assignment. As part of the check that was then
carried out, the person concerned stated that he had recorded everything
with his dashcam – which was permanently in operation. It is his right to
film traffic with the dashcam and he can do so at any time. After it was
foreseeable as a result of the appearance of the person concerned,

182 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

that a seizure or confiscation of the dashcam
only under considerable resistance and presumably under
The camera was initially refrained from confiscating because it could
be used under direct coercion and at the same time the urgent
processing of the original mission order was pending, but a complaint
was made to this effect.

It was therefore a case of an administrative offense report, which was
not already attached to the evidence (memory card of the dashcam) as
is usually the case. Instead, however, there were other strong indications
of illegal dashcam use. A hearing of the person concerned would very
likely have resulted in the person concerned denying the allegation to
the administrative authority without being able to verify it, or in deleting
the memory card before it was handed over to the administrative
authority, or in handing over another data medium straight away. An
alternative investigative measure was not evident; the accusation but at
least so

serious that even a hiring was out of the question. The result of the
search, which was limited to his vehicle and the dashcam located there
due to the presence and willingness of the person concerned to
cooperate, was surprising in that it did

actually no relevant video recordings were contained on the memory
card. The person concerned stated that he was only bluffing the police
officer and that he had only bought the dashcam for use abroad. The
example shows, on the one hand, that searches are not exclusively

with the aim of finding incriminating evidence

be led, but of course can also lead to
to relieve those affected. On the other hand, this
It's clear that hasty statements made against police forces with the aim
of intimidating them are not very promising and can quickly turn into
the opposite.

The second case in which I applied for and executed a search and
seizure warrant concerned stationary video surveillance in which the
person concerned

Activity Report 2021

| 183

Machine Translated by Google

was of the opinion that he could evade access by the
information authorities by invoking his right to refuse
information, and in which I had no other choice than to switch
from the supervisory to the administrative offense proceedings
due to the lack of further opportunities for clarification and the
lack of access rights, cf Statements under 6.3.1 on exercising
the right to refuse information.

6.4.3 Sanctioning of so-called
employee excesses
ÿ Art. 25, 83 GDPR; § 48 Saxon GDPR

My predecessor in office had commented on the procedures
for prosecuting employees in the event of violations of Article
83 (5) of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR),
Activity report 2017/2018: ÿ sdb.de/

see activity report from April 1, 2017 to December 31, 2018, page

tb2109

252ff.

No penalty without a clear legal basis
According to Art. 83 GDPR, only those responsible, Art. 4 No.
7 GDPR, or persons in the
Cases in which this is determined by area-specific regulations
– for example state fines – and for which the regulations of
the Administrative Offenses Act (OWiG) then apply mutatis
mutandis.
Sanctioning requires a clear legal basis that satisfies the
principle of certainty.
Prerequisites for the applicability of Art. 83
General Data Protection Regulation
The inappropriate viewing or retrieval of information in the
infrastructure of the employer or the employer is not sufficient
for the assumption of responsibility under the GDPR.
Cumulatively, that must be added
retrieving person also via the means of data processing

tion. The employee is not already responsible if he or she has
a certain degree of personal responsibility

184 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

has been transferred, which allows him to independently view or retrieve
personal data from automated processes, at least not if the individual
authority of an individual who is assigned to the person responsible is not
expressly sanctioned by law, cf. below on the application practice . Much
more is therefore required the authority to dispose of the means, that is

Employee excesses that reach
a certain extent are regularly
reported, also with regard to

those of the person responsible – the authority or the company
men – to organize compliance with data protection regulations, data

Art. 25 GDPR and

protection organizational measures, consideration of the rights of those

insufficient technical and

affected, etc.

organizational measures by the
person responsible for enabling
the employee to access the data.

In addition, in practice, the traceability of pure "curiosity requests" that
occur particularly frequently should regularly fail due to Art. 2 (2) (c)
GDPR.
However, the excess of employees can in turn then declined
be tionable if the information retrieving Be
processed them further with his data processing devices, which means
that further data processing phases outside the employer's sphere were
added.
Example: An employee of a controller calls up name and address data,
saves it on his own data carrier and processes it for the purposes of his
part-time job – the sale of financial products

home on his home computer.

Previous court decisions
With the Administrative Court of Dresden and in its decision of February
5, 2020 (VG Dresden, judgment of 05.
February 2020 – 10 K 372/16.D –, para. 83 - 85, juris) referred to by the
established case law of the Federal Administrative Court, my authority
assumes that the use of official information systems - even for nonemployee, private purposes - is an internal act. This, in particular the
integration of such a breach of duty Ver

keep in the office and in the associated official
Activity (Federal Administrative Court, judgment of August 19, 2010 -

–,

2 C 5.10 juris para. 9), precludes the assumption that the employee as a
private individual and his own responsible person

Activity Report 2021

| 185

Machine Translated by Google

would be treated within the meaning of Art. 4 No. 7 GDPR. This
applies a fortiori to actions that are exclusively official
serve purposes.
So far, two other court decisions were after
effective date of the General Data Protection Regulation, which at least
marginally tend to have its own
ne responsibility of employees who act excessively
take, LG Freiburg and VG Mainz. court decisions,
According to Art. 83 data protection for employee excesses
Basic Regulation does not apply are not known.
In a decision of November 30, 2021 - 4 U 1158/21 - the OLG Dresden
also took the view that a business
leader of a person in charge next to the person in charge
itself is to be regarded as its own responsibility.
application practice
My authority applies with regard to an administrative offence
only landed at public Saxon offices
of the legal fine regulations, according to the provision of § 48 Saxon Data
Protection Implementation Act in dir
line area.
An application of Art. 83 GDPR to employees who have processed nonpublic data without authorization in the course of their professional activity
is generally not carried out by my authority for the reasons set out above,
provided that there are no further processing steps. It would be the sole
responsibility of the legislator or legislator to regulate further.

6.5 Public Relations
6.5.1 Press work
and online communication
Press and media work remains an important communication tool for my
authority. In the reporting period, this not only included answering media
inquiries, but also publishing press releases, for example on the register
modernization

186 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

law, Safer Internet Day, data protection in schools, examining media
companies and the dangers of cyber attacks.

Since June 2021, media information from my authority
Press releases of the SDB:
ÿ medienservice.sachsen.de

via the media service of the Free State of Saxony free of charge
be subscribed to.
Journalists also approached my authority with a wide variety of questions.
A lot was related to the pandemic and digitization. Among other things, it
was about data leaks at test centers, digital health applications, bonus
programs for vaccinated people, model projects, the school app Scoolio,
the data protection compliance of fax machines, video surveillance in
Chemnitz and much more.

Another important communication tool is my website. Preparations for
the redesign began in the reporting period. At the same time, the
employees in my department regularly posted information on current
topics on the previous platform. A focal point

repeated the data protection in the corona pandemic.
But also information on the use of consent layers
and the Telecommunication Telemedia Data Protection Act
setz (TTDSG) and many other data protection issues have been published.

Interested parties received further support and advice from the Virtual
Data Protection Office, which I also contact
involved. This is an information portal for citizens that is operated by
Virtual Data Protection Office:

German-speaking state, church and broadcasting data protection officers.

ÿ www.datenschutz.de

6.5.2 Training and Lectures
During the reporting period, employees
held 21 training seminars from my office, including at the Saxon
Administrative and Economic Academy in Dresden, at the training center
of the

Free State of Saxony, at the State Office for Schools and Education
and at a school in Dresden. There were also shorter occurrences
sluggish, for example at an event with the Säch

Activity Report 2021

| 187

Machine Translated by Google

sian youth foundation in November. 35 FSJler (voluntary
social year) took part.
Compared to the previous year, there was a slight increase
in the number of lecturers, favored by increasing digitization
and a broader range of online seminars.
In the overall view of the longer past years, however, a
decline in the number of lecturers can be seen
place. The causes also include protection against infection

measures in connection with the coronavirus pandemic,
which is why a number of events have been cancelled.
Furthermore, the decline is due to the high workload in the
office.
In the presentations during the reporting period, the basics
and current issues relating to the General Data Protection
Regulation were dealt with in particular. Data protection in
schools and local government was also an issue. In
addition, the basics in the area of employee data protection
were increasingly taught in the reporting period.

188 |

Chapter 6

Machine Translated by Google

7 cooperation of
data protection supervisory authorities,
Data Protection Conference

A look at the following resolutions, resolutions, orientation aids,
statements and application notes makes clear the variety of topics with
which I am dealing
authority in the context of the data protection conference.

7.1 Data Protection Conference
Materials – Resolutions
Resolutions are public statements by the DSK on data protection policy
issues, such as the introduction
of a new law.
• Use the opportunities of the Corona-Warn-App 2.0 (04/29/2021) •
Proof of vaccination, proof of negative test results
and proof of recovery in the private sector and in employment are
regulated by law! (03/29/2021)

7.2 Data Protection Conference
Materials – Resolutions
Resolutions are positions that relate to the interpretation of data
protection regulations or corresponding recommendations.

• On the possibility of non-application of technical and organizational
measures according to Art. 32 GDPR
at the express request of data subjects

(24.11.2021)

Activity Report 2021

| 189

Machine Translated by Google

• Processing of the "vaccination status" date of employees by
the employer (October 19, 2021)

• Processing of positive data from private individuals from
contracts for mobile phone services and long-term trading
accounts by credit bureaus (09/22/2021) • Pool of energy
suppliers must not lead to transparent consumers* (03/15/2021)

7.3 Data Protection
Conference Materials - Guidance
Orientation aids and standardization are technical application aids
for those responsible, contract processors, manufacturers and the
public.
• Frequently asked questions and answers for processing

processing of employee data in connection with the corona
pandemic (December 20, 2021) • Guidance from the
supervisory authorities for providers
Telemedia users from December 1, 2021
(20.12.2021)

• Measures to protect personal data when transmitting by email
(06/16/2021) • Use of digital services for contact tracing

Follow-up on visits to events, facilities, restaurants and
shops to prevent the spread of Covid-19 (04/29/2021)

7.4 Data Protection
Conference Materials – Statements
Opinions are positions that are given in judicial or legislative
proceedings, among other things.

• Responsibility in Using Contact
tracking systems such as the Luca App (05/21/2021)

190 |

Chapter 7

Machine Translated by Google

• Technical data protection requirements for messenger
services in the hospital sector (04/29/2021)
• Contact tracing systems – in particular to “Luca” from
culture4life GmbH (04/29/2021) • Contact tracing in
times of the corona pandemic – combining practical solutions
with a high level of protection of personal data (03/26/2021)
• Evaluation of the BDSG (03/02/2021)

7.5 Data Protection
Conference Materials – Application
• Requirements for data protection certification programs - data
protection test criteria,
Test systematics and test methods for adjustment and
Application of the technical standard DIN EN ISO/IEC 17067
(program type 6)

7.6 European Data Protection
Board documents: guidelines,
recommendations, best
practices
The European Data Protection Board approved the documents
listed below.
• Guidelines 05/2021 on the Interplay between the application
of Article 3 and the provisions on international transfers
as per Chapter V of the GDPR (18.11.2021) • Guidelines
10/2020 on restrictions under Article 23 GDPR (13.10.2021)
• Guidelines on the terms “controller” and “processor” in
the GDPR (07/07/2021) • Guidelines 04/2021 on codes of
conduct as tools for transfers (07/07/2021)

Activity Report 2021

| 191

Machine Translated by Google

• Guidelines 02/2021 on virtual language assistants –
Version 2.0 (07/07/2021) • Recommendations
01/2020 on measures that supplement transfer tools to
ensure compliance with the EU level of protection of
personal data (06/18/2021) • Recommendations 02/2021
on Legal basis for the
Storage of credit card data solely for the purpose of facilitating
further online transactions (05/19/2021)

• Guidelines 8/2020 on the targeted addressing of users of
social media (04/13/2021)

• Guidelines 03/2021 on the application of Article 65(1)(a)
GDPR (13.04.2021)

• Guidance on certification criteria assessment (Addendum
to Guidelines 1/2018 on certification and identifying
certification criteria in accordance with Articles 42 and
43 of the Regulation) (06.04.2021)

• Guidelines 09/2020 on the relevant and justify
th objection within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
(09.03.2021)

• Guidelines 02/2021 on Virtual Voice Assistants – Version
1.0 (03/09/2021) • Guidelines 01/2020 on the processing
of personal data in connection with connected vehicles and
mobility-related applications (03/09/2021) •
Recommendations 01/2021 on the reference basis for
the term “Adequacy” in the Policy on Data Breach in Law
Enforcement (02/02/2021) • Guidelines 01/2021 on
Examples regarding Data Breach Notification (19/01/2021)

192 |

Chapter 7

Machine Translated by Google

7.7 Joint Review
by media companies
data protection supervisory authorities
ÿ Art. 6, 28 GDPR

Activity report 2020: ÿ
sdb.de/tb2020

In the 2020 activity report (section 7.8, page 164), my predecessor
reported on a joint audit of media companies, in which a total of eleven
of the German data protection supervisory authorities are taking part. In
2020, questionnaires were developed for this purpose and sent to the
online media with the greatest reach in the respective

state shipped.
In the first half of 2021, the questionnaires in the various federal states
were evaluated by the supervisory authorities and individual services
were subjected to a more in-depth review. Information on individual
services was exchanged between the supervisory authorities, but
information on the audited companies was kept strictly within their
respective areas of responsibility. In view of the well over 100 different
services used, in some cases with different configurations, the
examination of the sometimes very complex data processing and the
available contractual documents proved to be very time-consuming. It
would be just as time-consuming to bring about coordinated views on
individual services or the permissible design of consent solutions.

From the summer to late autumn, talks were held with all the media
companies affected by the audit in my area of responsibility. In doing
so, questions of
Deployment of services discussed: data transfers to the outside
European countries, individual solutions for bringing about a consent
decision as well as third-party services and their necessity. My
predecessor in office made it clear where he felt changes were
necessary and that he also took note of the media companies' arguments
regarding the financing of online journalism

Activity Report 2021

| 193

Machine Translated by Google

What should I do?
media companies are
kept the existing ones
Business models and there
in particular the transfer of user

men has. Overall, the talks were very constructive, and
there have already been a number of adjustments in the
meantime, so that a significantly better level of data
protection can be seen compared to the year before the
joint review. The talks are not yet over. Even if extensions
of deadlines have been granted to date for the

Techniques.

implementation of the changes, which are quite complex
from a technical and business procedural point of view, I
cannot rule out that individual aspects of data processing
will have to be cleaned up by means of supervisory law
and that courts may have to deal with the questions of
the admissibility of individual processing operations.

194 |

Chapter 7

data
to set the test. This
requires a precise examination of
all services used and their use of
data by cookies and similar

Machine Translated by Google

8 Directive area - Directive
(EU) 2016/680 - and other areas

8.1 Tasks of the GKDZ according
to § 4 GKDZ-StV
For several years now, I have been supporting the process of setting up
a joint competence and service center for the police forces of the states
of Berlin, Brandenburg, Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia in the field
of police telecommunications surveillance as a public-law institution with
legal capacity (GKDZ).

In the future, the GKDZ is to act as the central service provider for the
responsible states in the area of police telecommunications surveillance,
data from telecommunications surveillance measures in accordance with
the respective state police laws and Sections 100a et seq

process countries.
On September 8, 2017, the sponsoring countries signed the state treaty
on the establishment of the GKDZ (GKDZ-StV), which was subsequently
confirmed by the parliaments of the sponsoring countries.
The Saxon state parliament approved the state treaty by Ge
added on December 13, 2017.

Position of the state data protection officers of the
sponsoring countries
In the course of the participation of the state data protection officers of
the responsible states in the planning of the GKDZ
already in 2019 a dissent between the GKDZ and the
State data protection officer with regard to the tasks assigned to the
GKDZ by state treaty, which also

Activity Report 2021

| 195

Machine Translated by Google

reporting period could not be dissolved and think
Predecessors and my counterparts caused the

Interior departments of the sponsoring countries as holders of the legal
to inform you about our position via the GKDZ:
§ 4 GKDZ-StV is decisive for the determination of the tasks, the fulfillment
of which is assigned to the GKDZ as a sovereign institution under public
law. According to this, the sponsoring countries use the institution by way
of order processing for data from police telecommunications surveillance
according to the respective state police laws and §§ 100a ff. StPO (core
task), § 4 paragraph 1 sentence 2 GKDZ StV. The term telecommunications
surveillance is defined below in Section 4 (1) sentence 3 GKDZ-StV:

“Telecom monitoring is the processing of usage, content, traffic,
inventory and
location data for the purposes of prevention, detection,
Detection or prosecution of criminal offenses and
Protection against and averting of dangers for the
public safety."
According to this, it is excluded that the tasks of the GKDZ could extend
to order processing of data from police or criminal procedural measures
that are not related to telecommunications processes and/or
telecommunications surveillance.

Data that is collected from information technology systems, for example
by way of online searches (§ 100b StPO or corresponding regulation
under state police law),
are not telecommunications data within the meaning of § 4 para.
1 sentence 3 GKDZ-StV. It is just as little concerned with data obtained
from acoustic monitoring of living space, Section 100c StPO, acoustic
monitoring outside of living space, Section 100f StPO, and other measures
outside of
Housing according to § 100h StPO will be charged to Telekom
communication data. The same applies to data that was collected by way
of seizure or confiscation in accordance with §§ 94, 98 and 99 StPO
(postal confiscation). According to these regulations or the corresponding
state police law

196 |

Chapter 8

Machine Translated by Google

The data collected by the authorities does not originate from
telecommunications processes and can therefore not have been
obtained by means of police surveillance of telecommunications;
their (order) processing by the GKDZ is not covered by the
assignment of tasks in § 4 GKDZ-StV. The same applies to data
from the state police's electronic reconnaissance. Even taking into
account the system- and development-open design of Section 4
(1) GKDZ-StV from the point of view of the GKDZ and the case
law of the Federal Constitutional Court on telecommunications
secrecy that is open to development, a qualification of processes
and activities that go beyond Sections 100c, 100f and 100h StPO
in a criminal investigation, as "telecommunication" under no

legal, factual or technical point of view possible. If data carriers
are secured or confiscated, there is a data collection measure in
the form of "security" or "seizure" with regard to the data contained
in them, which is also referred to as summoning up
ter fantasy not as a measure of telecommunications

monitoring can be qualified.
Interpretation of the concept of telecommunications
From the point of view of the Federal Constitutional Court
(BVerfG), the concept of telecommunications secrecy is open to
development and technology, but at the same time the court
emphasizes that only "with the help of the available
telecommunications technologies subsequent transmissions of
information" are covered (BVerfG, 9.10. 2002, Ref.: 1 BvR
1611/96, 1 BvR 805/98). Such information transmissions take

place in circumstances in which §§ 100b, 100c, 100f, 100h and 94, 98, 99 St
Application come, simply does not take place.
An interpretation of the terms “telecommunications” and
“telecommunications monitoring” completely detached from the
general understanding, from legal definitions and from the case
law of the constitutional court is prohibited for an institution under
public law bound by law and justice as a processor as well as for

Activity Report 2021

| 197

Machine Translated by Google

Criminal prosecution and hazard prevention authorities as those
responsible for data protection who use the GKDZ for order processing.

The Saxon State Ministry of Justice and for Demo
kratie, Europe and Equality shares this view.
Thus, § 4 para. 1 GKDZ-StV sets the framework in which the
GKDZ may become active and process personal data of persons affected
by police intervention measures. At the same time, Section 4 (1) GKDZStV stipulates that the core task is to be fulfilled by means of order
processing. The fulfillment of other tasks associated with encroachments
on fundamental rights - the provision of support and advisory services in
accordance with Section 4 (2).

GKDZ-StV is not covered by this

–,

is the GKDZ as öf

public body denied due to lack of statutory assignment of tasks. This
also applies to activities outside the area specified in § 4 Para. 1 GKDZStV if they are also
how the core task is to be carried out by way of order processing, as the
statutory provision stipulates that (only) the assigned task is to be fulfilled
by way of order processing. For the GKDZ, this means that order
processing of data that does not originate from police telecommunications
surveillance is not provided for by law and is therefore inadmissible.

No unauthorized extension of the legal
range of tasks
A public body that has been assigned specific tasks by the legislature is
not entitled to
this – finally formulated here in § 4 GKDZ
to expand the gift catalog on their own. The clear will of the legislator or
legislators would therefore oppose order processing outside of the
statutory framework; even an agreement between two executive branches
cannot circumvent such a (and restricted) assignment of tasks by the
legislature.

198 |

Chapter 8

Machine Translated by Google

Should the sponsoring states wish to transfer further tasks
associated with fundamental rights encroachments to the
GKDZ, they and first and foremost their parliaments would of
What should I do?
The GKDZ has registered with Ver

course be free to expand the range of tasks of the GKDZ by
amending the state treaty.

to limit the processing of personal

I will use the powers available to me to enforce compliance

data by way of order processing to

in accordance with my legal role

the tasks assigned to it by law in

data protection regulations by the GKDZ - here

accordance with § 4 GKDZ-StV.

to enforce the processing of sovereign data only to the extent
specified by the legislature.

8.2 Use of a facial
recognition program for
criminal prosecution by
the Dresden police department
ÿ § 48 BDSG, § 163 StPO

My authority became aware of this through media reports

It is notable that the Dresden Police Headquarters used a
program with a facial recognition function to investigate a
large number of crimes, some of which were serious, in
connection with the riots surrounding a Dynamo Dresden
sports association football match on May 16, 2021
uses.
The police directorate answered the related data protection
questions in the context of a discussion and the presentation
of the program. In addition, a data protection impact
assessment was submitted in accordance with Section 67 of
the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG).
The procedure followed by the police is as follows
measures.
Due to the events on the afternoon of May 16, 2021, in the
course of which massive attacks on police officers and
considerable damage to property were carried out from a
large crowd, the Police Directorate
tion Dresden a special commission for criminal law

reconnaissance used.

Activity Report 2021

| 199

Machine Translated by Google

Images from various sources
Police officers had video recordings during the riots

based on the Saxon Police Enforcement Service Act
(SächsPVDG) and the Code of Criminal Procedure
(StPO). Subsequently, the police secured the time of the crime
me video recordings from the scene of the crime

adjoining video surveillance systems (e.g. that of the
Rudolf Harbig Stadium). The investigators also saved
recordings of the riots on publicly accessible video and
social media platforms YouTube and Facebook. In
addition, an information portal was activated on which
witnesses or other third parties were given the opportunity
to download multimedia data on the incidents
to deposit.
The collected and stored image data are then stored
together and brought into a place-time reference, which
enables the search for a specific (crime) place or a (crime)
time.
Software generates biometric data
The software used automatically detects facial and body
images from the image data collected, which are used in
the context of subsequent comparisons that are triggered
manually. In the course of storage, the images are
automatically indexed, in
in which the image material is screened and significant
points of patterns relevant to face detection are determined,
which in a next step allow identification or comparison.
As part of data processing, software-based algorithms are
used for automated processing of personal data for the
purpose of face detection and face identification based on
biometric data (facial images).
Automated face detection describes the technical
Process in which automated and not individualized
a search is made for existing facial patterns in an image,
a sequence of images or a video. Through this tech

200 |

Chapter 8

Machine Translated by Google

nical methods, suitable facial images are calculated for comparison.
Of particular importance are features of the face that are subject to
few changes due to facial expressions (e.g. hollow edges of the eyes,
sides of the mouth, ...). The result of the calculation is referred to as a
"template".

Face detection is followed by face identification
Face detection is a required technical pre-requisite
stage for the subsequent automated face identification. This processing
step captures all people or faces or faces recognized by the program
in the image material.
face pattern; It is irrelevant whether the person concerned
son is shown in criminally relevant acts.
The faces or the “templates” calculated from them are stored in a
reference database within the program, with which the reference data/
identities presented by the investigators are then compared by way of
automated face identification.

Automated facial identification describes the tech
nical process in which face
detection-indexed face images with face images

Reference data are automatically compared. As a result of the auto

mated method of face identification becomes a
Correlation of the matched facial images is calculated. Depending on
the calculated match, a hit case is displayed.

Pictures or videos of people known to the investigators,
who were identified on the day of the assignment through the
identification service or similar can be stored and analyzed in the
program as reference data (identity). You can then search for them in
a targeted manner in order to find incriminating and exculpatory video
material.
If hitherto unknown persons are found in the secured data, for whom,
based on the recordings, there are sufficient actual indications for a
traceable

a criminal offense or an administrative offence, the detected

Activity Report 2021

| 201

Machine Translated by Google

The animal face/object (body) can be created as a reference
file (identity) and thus further video material with the person
can be searched for.
After comparing the reference images with the entire image
material (reference database), the system displays faces
with a high mathematically calculated similarity (hits) in
relation to the identity sought. The maximal
The number of hits can be set by the user. The

Sorting is based on the calculated probability, sorted from
highest to lowest. The system does not automatically decide
that there is a match. It is just a pre-sorting to enable the
subsequent manual verification check
lighten.

An employee checks the factual accuracy of the hit case by
comparing the created identity with the calculated comparison
images (manual verification check).
"Hit images" where the manual verification check did not
confirm the hit case are automatically reposted
Termination of search in the separate hit file deleted;
however, the deletion does not affect the data
reference database.
Technical and organizational protection of data
The server technology, on which the application analyzes
the saved data in order to compare it with the reference data,
is operated separately from other data systems in a closed
area. insight into
Only the investigators entrusted with the facts have data

ler and video evaluator. In addition to access at file level,
which is accessible to the investigators of the procedure,
additional access (user name, password) is required to
process the case with the software.
The police directorate sees the legal basis for the collection,
storage, comparison and deletion of the image data in the
Code of Criminal Procedure (StPO), which also forms the
legal framework within which the image data in the

202 |

Chapter 8

Machine Translated by Google

May be further processed in case of a hit. The basis specifically for the
creation and use of the reference database, which contains the data or
images with which the stored image material of the criminally relevant
processes is compared, lies in Section 163 (1) StPO in conjunction with
Section 48 (1). , 46 no. 14 letter c BDSG.

legal framework
Although I consider the processing of biometric data, in particular in the
form of automated facial recognition and in the context of the fulfillment
of police tasks, to be critical and risky from a data protection point of view,
I have opposed the use of software in narrowly limited applications that
collects biometric characteristics of data subjects within generated and
compared from lawfully obtained evidence, no serious concerns. The use
of the software in the concrete,

the manner described by the police department
not to complain about.
The footage used in the proceedings of the riots on May 16, 2021 is likely
to have been lawfully collected on the basis of §§ 161 Paragraph 1, 163
Paragraph 1 StPO, insofar as the police themselves made the recordings
to preserve evidence. Photographs taken by the local police to the dangers

defense on the basis of Section 57 (2) SächsPVDG may use it to
prosecute crimes committed there in accordance with Section 79 (2)
SächsPVDG. Third-party image material was lawful on the basis of Section
94 (1) StPO
to ensure.
The processing of this data in the form of storage as well as reading,
using and comparing (§ 46 No. 2 BDSG) can be based on § 163 Paragraph
1 StPO. However, this provision does not automatically allow the
processing of biometric data (Section 46 No. 12 BDSG) as used by the
police
Direction Dresden using the software described above
makes. If biometric data is used to uniquely identify a natural person (§
46 No. 14 Letter c BDSG), their processing according to § 48 Para. 1
BDSG is only

Activity Report 2021

| 203

Machine Translated by Google

negligent if it is "absolutely necessary" to fulfill the task
(§ 48 Para. 2 BDSG).
Processing is "absolutely necessary" if it appears almost
indispensable for the fulfillment of the task.
I regard this condition as fulfilled in the present case. The
state has an obligation to ensure effective criminal
prosecution, but at the same time its actions must always
be proportionate. If the criminal prosecution authorities
have footage of suspected serious crimes, including
those directed against individuals, they are obliged to
investigate these crimes. If, due to the number of legal
violations depicted and the extent of the image material,
a purely "human" viewing of the material would take a
disproportionately long time and effective criminal
prosecution would thus be practically thwarted, the use
of available technical aids for viewing and evaluating the
Image material and therefore for the timely investigation
of criminal offenses for the task of criminal prosecution
incumbent on the police and the public prosecutor's office
"absolutely necessary" within the meaning of Section 48 (1) BDSG.
However, Section 48 (2) BDSG – in parallel with or in the
form of the principle of proportionality, which must always
be observed – requires suitable guarantees for the legal
interests of the data subjects when processing special
categories of personal data.
The approach taken by the Dresden Police Headquarters
and the precautions it has taken to minimize risks for the
people depicted on the photos used, who are biometrically
recorded and therefore included in the system-based
comparison, do not raise any serious concerns in this
respect. However, I have considerable doubts as to the
suitability of the provision of Section 48 BDSG as a
general authorization standard for the use of facial
recognition software in the area of criminal prosecution.
The provision essentially only reproduces the wording of
Art. 10 of Directive (EU) 2016/680 and only lists possible
measures to protect those affected as examples. With
regard to other processing situations

204 |

Chapter 8

Machine Translated by Google

With regard to other categories of data that are particularly worthy of
protection, this may be sufficient; as a basis
for generating biometric data from under circumstances
the hundreds or even thousands of those affected, most of whom were
not involved in criminal offenses, and their intensive use in the form of
repeated comparisons, § 48 BDSG is unlikely to meet the requirements
for a sufficiently specific, clear and proportionate overriding standard.

My assessment can therefore only apply to the specific use of the
program with face recognition function in the specific investigation into
the riots on May 16, 2021 at the Rudolf Harbig Stadium in Dresden.

Risks of using automated facial recognition
However, the use of the software cannot be attested to be generally
unobjectionable under data protection law. On the contrary, the
description of the procedure shows that programs with an automated
facial recognition function may only be used if proportionality is strictly
observed. The reason for this lies in the large number of people affected
by the processing, who neither appear as disruptors under criminal law
nor as suspects under criminal law, but only appear by chance and as
bystanders in the image material that depicts the behavior of individuals
relevant to the police. These uninvolved third parties are also subjected
to police processing of their data – just like all of the people captured in
the photos without exception

category of personal data that is particularly worthy of protection
data concerns.
The system-immanent creation and indexing of comparison data, which
already takes place in the course of storing the investigation-relevant
image material and without exception affects all persons depicted and is
only the basis for results in comparisons to be carried out later, creates
a - temporary - database with biometric data of everyone in the recordings
depicted persons.

Activity Report 2021

| 205

Machine Translated by Google

The associated depth of intervention with regard to the
The fundamental right of those affected to an informational self

determination is significant – not only are images relating
to you stored, but biometric data relating to you are also
–,
obtained from them and processed – the risks are obvious.

With unrestricted use of biometric comparison data
generated from image recordings from (numerous)
different procedures and different sources, the technology
enabled rapid comparability and person-related research,
which would be all the more extensive in terms of time
and place, the longer the image and comparison data
were stored and made available across procedures would.
The creation of detailed individual behavior and movement
profiles would be possible without much effort.
Such processing of personal data – with regard to
uninvolved persons or persons not identified in verified
hits, this was done “in advance” and therefore illegal –
would be clearly unconstitutional (cf. here on the case law
of the Federal Constitutional Court on automated license
plate recognition and the obligation to immediate, traceless
Deletion of "non-matches", BVerfG, 18.12.2018, Az.: 1
BvR 142/15, No. 97, 98).
The use of comparison data based on biometric features
must therefore be strictly limited to the specific
investigative procedures remain limited. This data, most
of which can usually be attributed to uninvolved persons,
must be deleted at the latest when the evaluation of the
images stored as evidence has been completed.

Minimum requirements for the use of
facial recognition software
Against this background, I consider the following
requirements to be indispensable for the use of face
recognition software for the purpose of criminal prosecution,
limited to a single investigation:

206 |

Chapter 8

Machine Translated by Google

• The use of programs with automated face recognition is to be
restricted to processes of criminal law that are significant due
to the
Individual circumstances not cleared up in any other way or
only cleared up with a disproportionate amount of time
could become.
• To interfere with the right to informational self
In order to keep the identification of data subjects as low as
possible, when deciding which image material is to be included in
the evaluation, strict attention must be paid to necessity and
proportionality (§ 47 No. 3 BDSG).

• When pre-selecting the visuals to be included

therefore a narrow local and temporal restriction is to be
implemented; Footage taken outside the crime scene
or in its immediate vicinity and outside the time of the crime, must
be disregarded
remain.

• A comparison with images that do not have such narrow location and
Time reference to the crime must be avoided (this applies in
particular to image data that is not crime-related
from social media channels and not directly tatbe
recorded recordings from official and private video surveillance
systems, for example in public places, train stations or in local
public transport).
• The reference database must not be mixed with other files
or sources of knowledge are networked (§ 48 Para. 2 No. 5
BDSG).
• The templates stored in the reference database may not be used
for purposes other than image matching in the specific procedure;
a procedure
Cross-border use of the comparison data from the reference
database is not permitted. • An internet-based application
("cloud application") is not permitted, the technology must be operated
separately from other data systems.

Activity Report 2021

| 207

Machine Translated by Google

• A transfer/disclosure of personal
Data to the manufacturer of the program or other
third parties, also in the context of support or
maintenance work, is not permitted. • Access to
the application and the reference database is to be
restricted to a small, clearly defined group of
people.
• The reference database must be deleted at the latest
upon completion of the evaluation of the image
material. • Image data that was created on the basis of
a supposed but actually unverified match (false
positive hits) must be deleted immediately. •
Measures that have an impact on individuals affected
may not be taken on the basis of "system-side"
signals, ie solely on the basis of a computing
process and without human control and decision (§
54 BDSG).
Under these conditions, I consider the use of software
with a facial recognition function for criminal prosecution
purposes in a specific investigation
acceptable under data protection law.

In view of the extent of the measure’s encroachment –
even if the above-mentioned high requirements are met
– and its potentially wide spread, as well as the vagueness
of the provision of Section 48 BDSG, a standard-clear
What should I do?
The use of programs with

legal regulation on the use of facial recognition software
would ensure legal security for the law enforcement

automated facial

authorities and could at the same time reduce the risk

recognition in criminal

minimize disproportionate harm to data subjects. I think

prosecution is only under narrow
Boundaries and not procedural

it is necessary to create a corresponding legal basis.

universally permitted.

208 |

Chapter 8

Machine Translated by Google

9 case law on data protection

9.1 Compensation for pain and
suffering for each breach of the GDPR?
ÿ Art. 9 GDPR, Art. 82 Para. 1 GDPR

The European Court of Justice is currently dealing, among
other things, with the questions of whether Article 82 (1) of the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has a special or
general preventive character, following a preliminary ruling by
the Federal Labor Court (ruling of August 26, 2021 – 8 AZR 253/20).
It is also checked whether this is the case when measuring the height
a non-material damage to be compensated according to Art. 82

GDPR at the expense of the person responsible or
Processor must be taken into account and whether it is when
assessing the amount of an immate to be replaced
tial damage to the degree of culpability of the responsible

literal or order processor arrives.
The Federal Labor Court is of the opinion that the person
concerned does not have to have suffered consequences of
at least some weight, but that a breach of the General Data
Protection Regulation itself constitutes non-material damage
to be compensated. The Austrian Supreme Court (ruling of
April 15, 2021 – 6 Ob 35/21x –; ZD 2021, 631) and the
Supreme Administrative Court of Bulgaria (European Court of
Justice, case C-340/21) have made similar submission
decisions.
These questions are based on a case from Ar
right of employment. A medical service worker

a health insurance company was seven months after starting a
Illness on behalf of his health insurance because of doubts

Activity Report 2021

| 209

Machine Translated by Google

medically examined by his employer due to his incapacity to
work. A doctor at his employer diagnosed a “severe depression
without psychotic symptoms”.
The plaintiff learned from the doctor treating him that he had
been contacted by the expert. A colleague from the IT
department confirmed to the plaintiff that a report about him
was stored in his employer's digital archive and photographed
it for him. The plaintiff and his colleague were fired during the
course of the lawsuit.
The plaintiff sued his employer for material and immaterial
damages due to violations of data protection regulations in the
employment relationship.
The answer to the questions referred will also be of considerable
importance for Saxony. Because if a mere violation of the
What should I do?

General Data Protection Regulation without the existence or

The decision of the ECJ remains

proof of damage being sufficient as a reason for compensation,

to be seen. Only

this would be very badly affected

the consequences for local
practice can be drawn.

friendly and could lead to a wave of lawsuits as in the so-called
th diesel scandal.

9.2 BAG on the right to information
- right to a copy of data in
accordance with Art. 15 (3) GDPR
ÿ Section 253 (2) ZPO, Art. 15 (3) GDPR

In a judgment of April 27, 2021 - 2 AZR 342/20 - the Federal
Labor Court (BAG) ruled on the right to information under
Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
It was about the right to be granted a copy of the data.
In the process to be decided, the employee claimed to receive
a data copy of all business emails against his employer, Art. 15
(3) GDPR.
In the dispute, the court ruled that the claim was not enforceable
as it was not clear to which
e-mails based on the request for surrender. A content-related
data protection assessment was not carried out.
The court referred to the civil procedural rule

210 |

Chapter 9

Machine Translated by Google

What should I do?
When asserting a right to
information, Recital 63 of the
General Data Protection

of Section 253 (2) of the Code of Civil Procedure (ZPO) and an
impossibility of determining in a specific case in the enforcement
proceedings which e-mails are to be disclosed as copies. The limitation

Regulation must be observed,

and consideration of the court is in line with recital 63 sentence 7 of the

according to which the data subject

General Data Protection Regulation.

must specify which information he
or she is referring to.

9.3 BGH: content and
scope of the right to information
ÿ Article 15 GDPR

In a decision of June 15, 2021 - VI ZR 576/19 - the Federal Court of
Justice (BGH) ruled on the content and scope of the right to information
under Article 15 of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).

The legal dispute to be decided was about the fact that the
owner of a life insurance policy had received information
from the insurance company - the person responsible - and this
but considered incomplete. The person concerned took the position that
all the data available about him at the company, including

Correspondence and internal records and notes to be informed. The
lower court had such a far-reaching right to information

already denied.

The Federal Court of Justice, however, judged the process
differently and considered the right to information under Article 15 of
the General Data Protection Regulation to be fundamentally comprehensive.
In principle, all stored or
processed data relating to the data subject

reportable. This means that internal documents and correspondence in
which the person concerned was not involved also belong to the
information provided.
However, the court restricted that to the not to
information provided data on internal appraisals
The insurance company's claims and legal assessments made counted,
as these did not

Information about the person concerned and thus no personal

Activity Report 2021

| 211

Machine Translated by Google

represented data. The same applies to commission payments to third
parties. Corresponding documents may also be blacked out in this
respect.
What should I do?

A central point of the decision was also that the right to information

The right to information according to

according to the Federal Court of Justice was fulfilled if the information

Art. 15 GDPR is generally comprehensive.
Is information

debtor declared when providing information that the information was

on the part of the person responsible

complete or if this resulted from his information. In this respect, a mere

has been granted - at least in the

suspicion opens up that the information provided is not

absence of further evidence
points - it can be assumed that the
obligation under Art. 15

is correct or incomplete, no entitlement to information to a greater

DSGVO has also been fulfilled.

extent.

9.4 Statutory retention
requirements and the right
to erasure
ÿ § 147 AO, Art. 17 DSGVO

On December 14, 2021, the Dresden Higher Regional Court ruled - 4
U 1278/21 - on the question of whether unauthorized data should be
deleted if the corresponding documents are subject to statutory
retention requirements.
In the initial case, a company asked a supposed debtor to settle an
outstanding claim. Due to the same name, however, it was the person
concerned who was addressed in this way

not the actual debtor. The person concerned
then requested the person responsible to delete it. The person
responsible – the company – argued against this that there are storage
obligations under the tax code, Section 147 of the tax code (AO).

The court, on the other hand, recognized an obligation to delete the
name, address and date of birth of the person concerned while at the
same time observing the receipt of the business correspondence to be
stored,
hence the information that would allow the person concerned to be
identified in the documents. In this respect, the person responsible
would have to check the legal basis for storing individual data contained
in documents

212 |

Chapter 9

Machine Translated by Google

What should I do?
Even if there is a legal obligation
to retain data, the rights of those affected

bodies obliged to store the data are obliged to organize
their database in such a way that access to unlawfully
collected data of data subjects is not possible, for

must be taken into account as far as
possible with regard to (possible)

example by corresponding blacking out.

unlawful data collection.

Activity Report 2021

| 213

Machine Translated by Google

Machine Translated by Google

Machine Translated by Google

Publisher
Saxon data protection officer Dr. Juliane
Hundred
Devrientstraße 5
01067 Dresden

Contact
PO Box 11 01 32, 01330 Dresden Phone
0351/85471-100 Fax 0351/85471-109
saechsdsb@slt.sachsen.de
www.datenschutz.sachsen.de

cover photo

© Tomasz Zajda/stock.adobe.com

Print
New Süddeutsche Verlagsdruckerei GmbH

Edition
1,500 copies

publication
May 2022

reference
free of charge

Central brochure dispatch of the Saxon state government
Hammerweg 30
01127 Dresden
Phone: +49 351 210-3671 / -3672
publikationen@sachsen.de
www.publikationen.sachsen.de

Distribution Note
This activity report is issued based on the obligation under Article 59 of
the General Data Protection Regulation. It may not be used by political parties,
their candidates or supporters for the purpose of election advertising. This
applies to all elections. The distribution at election events, at information stands
of the parties as well as the insertion, printing or sticking of party-political
information or advertising material is particularly improper. It is also forbidden to
pass it on to third parties for use in election advertising.

Copyright
This publication is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International Public License and may be freely
reproduced, modified and distributed provided that the author, changes
made and the license are acknowledged.

You can find the full license text at:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode.de

