 
 
 
 
 
Athens, 11-06-2021
Prot. No.: 1464

 

 
 

Decision of the President of the Authority no. 3/2021

(article 15 par. 8 of Law 4624/19 in conjunction with article 58 par. 2 f GDPR)

 

1. Because with the no. prot. G/EIS/2924/05-05-2021 their report-complaint
to the Authority against the Municipality of Pallini the primary trade union
organization
(association) of primary education teachers in
Eastern Attica with the name "Association of Primary Teachers
of Education ALEXANDROS DELMOUZOS", based at the 1st Primary School
Pallinis Attica and A, B, C and D, serving Teachers at the same school
and members of the aforementioned association, complain that the Municipality of Pallini, in
whose responsibility the 1st Primary School of Pallini falls under, he placed
video surveillance system (cameras) in this school unit in such a way that
violates the provisions of the personal data protection legislation and
the Guidelines of the Authority and request that a definitive restriction be imposed and
prohibition of the processing of personal data by him
installed video surveillance system. With the report-complaint
they also request the issuance of a temporary injunction for immediate total restriction
processing and operation of said video surveillance system
until the issuance of a final decision, pursuant to article 15
paragraph 8 of Law 4624/2019 for the reasons set out below.
In particular, the complainants report that on April 16, 2021 the Municipality
Pallinis installed eight cameras, six of which are mounted
in points visible from the courtyard areas and facing the areas

 

 
1-3 Kifisias Ave., 11523 Athens
T: 210 6475 600 • E: contact@dpa.gr • www.dpa.gr

1

courtyard and sports of the educational unit in question and just the two of them
of these are facing the school entrances. Hence,
is disproportionately hindered by young students and teachers n
free development of their personality since when they will be outside
class but inside the school premises constantly in the field of cameras, will
develop the feeling that they are under constant surveillance, without
there is sufficient reason for this. The complainants also allege,
citing the under no. 77/2009 decision of the Authority, that this risk
exists even if these devices are out of order, because
the feeling is created that the citizen is most likely under
monitoring.
Furthermore, the complainants claim that the decision of the Municipality of Pallini
to install cameras was taken in the absence of the Teachers' Association
and the overwhelming majority of the disputing parents
of students of the said school unit while he was completely indifferent to
their repeated appeals to receive milder but expedient and
effective measures to improve the safety of the specific school
installation,
of
electric lighting during the night hours or even hiring a security guard.
Furthermore, it is argued that the Municipality of Pallini failed to prove the
legality of the installation of said system based on its principle
accountability and to prepare an impact assessment study on the
data protection although required for system installation
video surveillance in a public place, such as a school.

fences,

improvement

improvement

such as

of

2. Because a necessary condition for the issuance of a temporary injunction is the
strong likelihood that the intended processing may cause
risk to the fundamental rights and freedoms of their subjects
data, for the prevention of which the prohibition is necessary or o
limitation, which is not the case in this case.
And this is because, according to the number of prot. C/EIS/3782/09-06-2021
answer of the Municipality of Pallini, the video surveillance system it has
installed at the 1st Primary School of Pallini and for which it has been received from

 

2

the Municipal Council decision to operate during the night hours (10:30 p.m
p.m. to 07.00 a.m.), is not yet operational. Besides, legality
the installation and operation of a video surveillance system in schools
units of the Municipality of Pallini will be examined ex officio by the Authority, at
within the framework of its powers under Articles 57 and 58 of the GDPR and
articles 13 and 15 of Law 4624/2019, following other reports that have
submitted.

3. Because, in view of the above, there is no reason to issue a temporary one

order.

 

 

FOR THOSE REASONS

THE BEGINNING

Denies the request for a temporary injunction.

 

 

 

The president

Konstantinos Menudakos

 

 

3

 

 

 

 

 

 

