1/7

 Procedure No.: PS/00419/2019

938-090320

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and

based on the following

BACKGROUND

FIRST: On June 19, 2019, it had entry in this Spanish Agency of
Data Protection a document presented by Mrs. A.A.A. (hereinafter the
claimant), through which he makes a claim against Don B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1
(hereinafter, the claimed), for the installation of a video surveillance system
installed in the brewery where he worked, because he points out that he has not informed
workers of the existence of the cameras and their use. Provide images
of the camera in the premises (it does not seem that there are posters) and a screenshot of whatsapp in
which, according to her, the owner speaks with the person in charge of monitoring
through the cameras, there being indications of a possible breach of the provisions
in data protection regulations.

Along with the claim, accompany photographs with the location of the cameras
inside the premises; as well as a whatsapp conversation about what is happening
with a worker.

SECOND: Prior to the acceptance of this claim for processing, it is
transferred the claimed, in accordance with the provisions of article 65.4 of the Law
Organic 3/2018, of December 5, on the Protection of Personal Data and guarantee of
digital rights (hereinafter, LOPDGDD). The request was not answered
of information.

THIRD: The claim was admitted for processing by means of a resolution dated March 19,
September 2019.

FOURTH: On January 7, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of article 13 of the RGPD, typified in article 83.5 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: On March 12, 2020, allegations were received regarding the initial agreement
cio, in which, in summary, the following is indicated:

The claimant was fired days before filing the claim, trying
to be readmitted by different means, without having prospered given the legality of the
dismissal.

The cameras were installed by Securitas and there are posters of the company itself
company and an informative poster of its installation and the purposes of the video cameras.
flush
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/7

All employees were informed of its installation and the reasons for the
same. The bar has hired the Adaptalia Group to adapt all the treatments
to data protection obligations.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

FACTS

FIRST: The claimant filed a claim against the ***ESTABLISHMENT.1
for the installation of a video surveillance system without informing the
workers of the existence of the cameras and their use. Provides images of
camera in the premises (it does not seem that there are posters) and a screenshot of whatsapp in the
that, according to her, the owner speaks with the person in charge of monitoring
through the cameras.

Along with the claim, accompany photographs with the location of the cameras

inside the premises.
.

SECOND: The person in charge of ***ESTABLISHMENT.1 presented photographs in the
that next to each camera there is a Securitas poster and an information sheet
about data processing. He adds that the recording and the purposes were reported.
give to all the workers.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authori-
control, and as established in arts. 47 and 48.1 of the LOPDGDD, the Directorate
tora of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to resolve this
process.

II

The physical image of a person, in accordance with article 4.1 of the RGPD, is a
personnel and their protection, therefore, is the subject of said Regulation. In article 4.2
of the RGPD defines the concept of "treatment" of personal data.

It is, therefore, pertinent to analyze whether the processing of personal data (image
natural persons) carried out through the video surveillance system denouncing
ciated is in accordance with the provisions of the RGPD.

III

Article 6.1 of the RGPD establishes the assumptions that allow it to be considered lawful

the processing of personal data.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/7

For its part, article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, regarding the principles of processing
to, provides that the personal data will be "adequate, pertinent and limited to what is
necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (“minimization of
data")." This article enshrines the principle of data minimization in the treatment
of personal data. It assumes that said treatment is adjusted and proportional to
the purpose to which it is directed, and the processing of excessive data must be restricted.
you or proceed to delete them.

The relevance in the treatment of the data must occur both in the
the collection of the data as well as in the subsequent treatment that is carried out on the same.
mos.

Article 13, sections 1 and 2, of the RGPD, establishes the information that must be
be provided to the interested party at the time of data collection. In the case of
processing of personal data for surveillance purposes through camera systems
or video cameras, the duty of information can be fulfilled by placing, in
video-monitored areas, of an informative badge located in a place sufficiently
visible, both in open and closed spaces, and using forms in the
that the planned information is detailed, which the person in charge must make available
of those interested.

In accordance with the provisions of article 22 of the LOPDGDD, specifically referred to

specifically to "Processing for video surveillance purposes", establishes the following:

<<1. Natural or legal persons, public or private, may carry out
the treatment of images through camera systems or video cameras with the fi-
purpose of preserving the safety of people and property, as well as its installations.
tions.

2. Images of public roads may only be captured to the extent that they result

essential for the purpose mentioned in the previous section.

However, it will be possible to capture the public road in an area greater than
superior when necessary to guarantee the security of goods or facilities
strategic or infrastructure linked to transport, without in any case being able to
involve capturing images of the interior of a private home.

3. The data will be deleted within a maximum period of one month from its collection.
tion, except when they had to be kept to prove the commission of acts
that threaten the integrity of people, goods or facilities. In such a case, the
Images must be made available to the competent authority within a period
maximum of seventy-two hours from the knowledge of the existence of
the recording.

The blocking obligation provided for in

article 32 of this organic law.

4. The duty of information provided for in article 12 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 will be understood to be fulfilled by placing an informative device
in a sufficiently visible place identifying, at least, the existence of the treatment,
the identity of the person in charge and the possibility of exercising the rights provided for in the
Articles 15 to 22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It may also be included in the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/7

informative site a connection code or internet address to this information.

In any case, the data controller must keep available

of those affected the information referred to in the aforementioned regulation.

5. Under article 2.2.c) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, it is considered
excluded from its scope of application the treatment by a natural person of images
that they only capture the interior of their own home.

This exclusion does not cover processing carried out by a security entity
private that had been contracted for the surveillance of a home and had access
to the images.

6. The processing of personal data from images and sounds
two obtained through the use of cameras and video cameras by the Forces and
Security Bodies and by the competent bodies for surveillance and control in
penitentiary centers and for the control, regulation, vigilance and discipline of traffic
co, will be governed by the transposition legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/680, when
the processing is for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of
criminal offenses or execution of criminal sanctions, including protection and
prevention against threats to public safety. Outside of these assumptions
cough, said treatment will be governed by its specific legislation and additionally by the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and this organic law.

7. What is regulated in this article is understood without prejudice to the provisions of

Law 5/2014, of April 4, on Private Security and its development provisions.

8. The treatment by the employer of data obtained through information systems
cameras or video cameras is subject to the provisions of article 89 of this organic law.
ca.>>

And article 89 of the LOPDGDD indicates, regarding the Right to privacy versus
te to the use of video surveillance and sound recording devices in the place of
work, the following:

<<1. Employers may treat the images obtained through systems
more than cameras or video cameras for the exercise of control functions of the
workers or public employees provided, respectively, in article 20.3
of the Workers' Statute and in the public function legislation, provided that
These functions are exercised within their legal framework and with the limits inherent to the
same. Employers must inform in advance, and expressly
concisely, clearly and concisely, to public workers or employees and, where appropriate, to their
representatives, about this measure.

In the event that the flagrant commission of an illegal act has been detected
by public workers or employees, it shall be understood that the duty to report has been fulfilled.
form when there is at least the device referred to in article 22.4 of
this organic law.

2. In no case will the installation of sound recording systems be allowed.
nests or video surveillance in places intended for rest or recreation of
workers or public employees, such as changing rooms, toilets, dining rooms and
analogues.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/7

3. The use of systems similar to those referred to in the preceding sections
res for the recording of sounds in the workplace will be admitted only when
risks to the safety of facilities, goods and people are relevant.
nas derived from the activity that takes place in the workplace and always res-
respecting the principle of proportionality, the principle of minimum intervention and the guarantees
seen in the previous sections. Suppression of sounds preserved by these
recording systems will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of section 3 of article
ass 22 of this law.

On some occasions, the protection of private spaces is only possible if
the cameras are located in spaces such as facades. Sometimes it is also necessary
ary to capture the accesses, doors or entrances, so that, although the camera is
inside the building, it is impossible not to record a minimal and important part
dispensable from the public road, which is inevitably captured.

In order for this exception on the protection of private spaces to apply,
cable, there shall be no alternative installation possibility. In these cases, the
responsible for the treatment carried out through cameras will adapt the use of the
so that the impact on the rights of third parties (passers-by) is minimal.
mo possible. In no case will the use of surveillance practices be admitted beyond the
environment object of the installation, not being able to affect the surrounding public spaces.
contiguous buildings and vehicles other than those accessing the guarded space.

IV

The claim is based on the presumed illegality of the installation by the
called from a video surveillance system, made up of 4 cameras located in
the ***ESTABLISHMENT.1, located at ***ADDRESS.1; one of the cameras captures
images in the kitchen and record audio; the workers have not been informed of this
or the purpose of the recordings.

In addition, the claimant warns that the property reviewed does not have a sign
in which the presence of the cameras and the identity of the res-
responsible for data processing, so that interested persons can exercise
cite the rights provided for in arts. 15 to 22 of the GDPR.

As proof of these statements, the claimant provided the evidence

indicated in the “Facts” section, first point, of this agreement.

The person in charge of the denounced Brewery has presented allegations, accompanied
a handful of photographs that include posters of a video-surveillance area and information
tion on the processing of data and the possibility of exercising the rights provided
in the GDPR.

v

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

6/7

game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the
punisher and must be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal
or administrative (TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in
any of its manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a
contradictory procedure in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

SAW

According to the arguments presented and once the evidence has been analyzed,
bas provided, it can be concluded that the cameras installed inside the Cervecería
comply with current legislation by capturing a space proportionate to the intended purpose.
spread out and keep the workers informed.

So it is appropriate to order the file of this procedure by the

stated reasons.

The Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no
accredited the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to Don B.B.B..

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, the

This Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art.
48.6 of the LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPA-
CAP, the interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before
the Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a period of one month
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative case before the Contentious-administrative Chamber of the Au-
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the
fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Jurisdiction
Contentious-administrative diction, within a period of two months from the day following

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

7/7

Following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the aforementioned
Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPA-
CAP, the firm resolution may be provisionally suspended in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the city
tada Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the documentation
certifying the effective filing of the contentious-administrative appeal. Yes
the Agency was not aware of the filing of the contentious-administrative appeal
nistrative within two months from the day following the notification of the pre-
This resolution would end the precautionary suspension.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

