

Path: Home page > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activity Control of compliance with rights and obligations in the processing of personal data (SOLUS, interest association of legal entities)



Based on the initiative, the Office carried out an inspection in accordance with Act No. 101/2000 Coll., the subject of which was mainly compliance with obligations under Chapter Two of this Act by the interest association of legal entities SOLUS.



The inspection was started in 2014, but was interrupted in 2015 due to a lawsuit with the inspected person in a matter that coincides with the subject of the inspection. After the court decision became final in 2018, the Office completed this review.



The Office focused in particular on compliance with the obligations arising from § 5 paragraph 2 (legal title for processing), § 10 (protection of private and personal life) and § 20 paragraph 1 (disposal of data). The inspectors found that the inspected person did not accept the complainants' expression of disagreement with the processing of their personal data, and therefore processed personal data without their consent. The controlled person also failed to ensure that the data subjects did not suffer damage to their rights. In this direction, it was mainly about the right to protection against unauthorized interference in the private and personal life of data subjects.



The inspection proved that the inspected person violated the obligations set out in § 5 paragraph 2, § 10 and § 20 of Act No. 101/2000 Coll.



Given that the inspected person immediately corrected the objectionable condition, the Office imposed neither corrective measures nor a fine, as responsibility for the offense lapsed with the passage of time.


The inspection was conducted by Inspector Mgr. Daniel Rowan.

ContextLocation: Document folders > Site map > Main menu > Supervisory and decision-making activities > Completed inspections > Inspections for the year 2018 > Inspection activities according to the Personal Data Protection Act - 2nd semester > Inspection of compliance with rights and obligations in the processing of personal data (SOLUS, interests association of legal entities)View current documents | document archive | documents including the archive



