1/6 

 

Litigation chamber 

 

Interlocutory Decision 01/2021 of 8 January 2021 

 

 

 

 

File Nr.: DOS-2019-01377 

 

Re: Language of the proceedings - complaint against IAB Europe 

 

The  Litigation  chamber  of  the  Data  Protection  Authority,  composed  of  H.  Hijmans,  President, 

Yves Poullet and Christophe Boerave, members, taking over the case;  

 

 Considering  the  Regulation  (EU)  2016/679  of  the  European  Parliament  and  of  the  Council  of 

27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on 

the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General data protection regulation, 

hereafter GDPR); 

 

Considering the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority (hereafter  DPA); 

 

Considering  the  rules  of  procedure  as  approved  by  the  Chamber  of  Representatives  on 

20 December 2018 and published in the Belgian Official Journal on 15 January 2019; 

 

Having  regard  to  the  letter  of  the  DPA  of  9  October  2020  inviting  the  parties  to  transmit  their 

submissions in French but allowing them to send them in English if this would prejudice a party ; 

 

Having  regard  to  the  letters  of  Mr  Debusseré  and  Mr  Roex,  lawyers  of  six  complainants,  dated 

27 November 2020  as well as 03 and 07 December 2020 respectively, in which they ask, in essence: 

 

- 

that the complainants be allowed to express themselves both in writing and orally in Dutch, and 

that the defendant be allowed to do the same in French; 

- 

to receive the defendant's written documents as well as all other documents in the file (including 

the report of the inspection service) in Dutch; 

that the communication between the DPA and the complainants be in Dutch;  

that the final decision be issued in both Dutch and French. 

- 

- 

 

Interlocutary Decision 01/2021 - 2/6 

Having regard to the letter from the DPA to Mr Debusseré, Mr Roex as well as to Mr Bidon and to the 

defendant on 09 December 2020, in which the Litigation chamber: 

indicates that French is maintained as the language of proceedings;  

declines the request for a Dutch version of the Inspection service's report;  

proposes to the parties to express themselves in their own language (written and oral), and to 

receive the other party's documents without translation;  

- 

- 

- 

 

Having regard to the letter of Mr Debusseré and Mr Roex of 14 December 2020 in which they add the 

following requests: 

- 

a version of the inspection report in Dutch and French, in which the English case law citations 

would be translated;  

- 

a new version of the submissions (in English) already sent by the defendant, in French, on the 

basis of an inspection report from which the English passages would be translated, as well as a 

corresponding new schedule of submissions;  

- 

that the defendant be provided with French translations of the complainants' submissions; 

 

Having regard to the letter from IAB Europe, defendant, dated 3 January 2021, in which it states that 

it wishes to continue to express itself in English; 

 

Considering the documents from the file; 

 

decided as follows concerning: 

- 

the complainants:  

-  Mr Johnny Ryan  

-  Mr Pierre Dewitte  

-  Mr Jeff Ausloos  

-  Mr Bruno Bidon  

-  NGO Panoptykon  

-  NGO Bits of Freedom  

- 

La Ligue des Droits de l’Homme  

 

 

 

- 

the defendant: IAB Europe  

 

 

Interlocutary Decision 01/2021 - 3/6 

1.  Facts and procedure history 

1.  Several complaints have been filed against Interactive Advertising Bureau Europe (hereafter IAB) 

for  violation  of  several  provisions  of  the  GDPR  (in  particular  the  principle  of  lawfulness, 

transparency, fairness, minimisation, security, obligation to provide information...), for large-scale 

processing of personal data.  

2.  Nine  identical  or  very  similar  complaints  were  made,  four  to  the  Data  Protection  Authority 

(hereafter "DPA") directly, and five to supervisory authorities in other EU countries via the IMI 

system. 

3.  The  four  complaints  were  lodged  directly  with  the  DPA  on  20  May  2019  (DOS-2019-02837), 

4 June 2019  (DOS-2019-03124),  2  July  2019  (DOS-2019-03668),  and  26  November  2020 

(this complaint was directly attached to file DOS-2019-01377) respectively. 

4.  The  five  IMI  complaints  were  filed  on  1st  March  2019  (DOS-2019-01377),  26  July  2019 

(DOS-2019-04052),  08  August  2019  (DOS-2019-04210),  19  August  2019  (DOS-2019-04269), 

16 December 2019 (DOS-2019-02653) respectively. 

5.  The DPA Inspection Service was also seized on its own initiative in file 2020-02653, which was 

attached to file DOS-2019-01377. 

6.  As the complaints are identical or very similar, the above-mentioned files have all been combined 

into a single case under file DOS-2019-01377. 

7.  The complainants agreed to this joinder, as well as to the Litigation Chamber's  request to join 

their pleadings and send joint sets, in the interest of economy and efficiency of the proceedings.  

8.  In  this  international  case,  three  complainants  are  domiciled  in  Belgium,  one  in  Ireland,  four  in 

different  EU  states  but  are  represented  by  the  NGO  Panoptykon  based  in  Poland,  and  one 

complainant  is  represented  by  the  NGO  Bits  of  Freedom  based  in  the  Netherlands. 

The complainants reside thus in various language areas.  

9.  Considering  the  international  nature  of  this  case,  the  Litigation  Chamber  addresses  in  this 

interlocutory decision the language of the proceedings. 

 

2.  Justification  

10.  When  analysing  the  language  of  the  proceedings,  a  distinction  should  be  made  between  the 

language  in  which  the  parties  address  the  DPA  and  the  language  in  which  the  DPA  addresses 

them. 

Interlocutary Decision 01/2021 - 4/6 

11.  As  regards  the  language  in  which  the  parties  address  the  DPA,  Article  30  of  the  Constitution 

guarantees linguistic freedom1.  

12.  As regards the language of the proceedings before the DPA, i.e. the language in which the DPA 

addresses the parties, Article 57 of the DPA Act provides in the context of the litigation procedure 

for handling complaints that "the DPA uses the language in which the proceedings are conducted 

as appropriate to the case".  [Unofficial  translation]  Although  the  lawyer  for  six  complainants 

argues that Article 57 of the DPA Act is unconstitutional, it is not the role of the Litigation Chamber 

to express an opinion on this matter, as it is, as an organ of the DPA, bound by the organic law 

that vests its powers in it. It is not within its competence to express an opinion on the conformity 

of the organic law with the Constitution.  

13.  The  Litigation  chamber  therefore  applies  Article  57  of  the  DPA  Act.  Read  in  conjunction  with 

Article 60 of this Act, the proceedings are conducted in one of the national languages. There is no 

other  language  legislation  directly  applicable  to  proceedings  before  the  Chamber.  The  law  of 

15 June 1935 concerning the use of languages in judicial matters does not apply to the Litigation 

chamber,  as  it  is  not  a  judicial  body.  The  Act  of  18  July  1966  on  the  use  of  languages  in 

administrative matters does not apply either because of the existence of the specific provision of 

Article 57 of the DAP Act and the principle of lex specialis.  

14.  For the implementation of this provision, the Litigation Chamber applies in principle the rule that 

the language of the proceedings is the language of the place of residence of the complainant.2 

As stated in Article 57 of the DPA Act, however, exceptions can be made to this main rule according 

to the needs of the case. 

15.  In this case, as IAB Europe does not speak Dutch and expressly requested the use of French in 

its exchanges with the Inspection service, and taking into account the fact that its statutes are 

drafted  in  French,  the  contacts  between  the  Inspection  service  and  IAB  Europe  were  largely 

conducted in this language. As stated in the note on the language policy of the Litigation Chamber, 

now available on the DPA website, the Chamber may derogate from the general rule of using the 

language of the place of residence of the complainant in case the defendant does not master this 

language, and requests the use of another (national) language. 

16.  The Litigation Chamber therefore maintains French as the language of proceedings, taking into 

account the international character of this case as well as the numerous parties involved and the 

multiple complaints in several EU Member States attached to the same file. The implementation 

of the cooperation between the lead authority (the DPA in this case) and the relevant supervisory 

1Article 30 of the Constitution "The use of languages used in Belgium is optional; it can only be regulated by law, and only 
for acts of public authority and for judicial matters.” [unofficial translation] 

 

As 

stated 

2 
https://www.autoriteprotectiondonnees.be/citoyen/chercher?q=langue&search_category%5B%5D=taxonomy%3Apublicati
ons (only available in French and in Dutch). 

available 

language 

website 

DPA 

note 

use, 

the 

on 

on 

in 

a 

: 

Interlocutary Decision 01/2021 - 5/6 

authorities (Article 60 GDPR) is also taken into account. If a second language were to be used, 

English would be appropriate, as cooperation between supervisory authorities takes place in that 

language. This is not a national language.  

17.  Nevertheless, with regard  to the language in which the parties address the  DPA, the Litigation 

chamber  decides,  on  the  basis  of  article  57  of  the  DPA  Act,  to  allow  the  parties  to  express 

themselves  in  the  language  of  their  choice  (limited  to  French,  Dutch  or  English)  both  in  their 

submissions and at the forthcoming hearing.  

18.  No translation will be provided of the written documents (submissions, documents in the case file, 

etc.), as in this case the Litigation chamber is of the opinion that both the complainants' lawyers 

and the complainants are fluent in French, Dutch and English. Moreover, systematic translations 

would cause months of delay in the procedure. However, the Chamber is of the opinion that in 

this particular case, in view of the interests represented and the scope of the case, a decision as 

soon as possible is desirable. 

 

 In  the  present  case,  the  Chamber  therefore  considers  that  it  is  in  the  interest  of  the  proper 

conduct of the proceedings to avoid unnecessary translations. 

19.  The official DPA decision will be issued in French, and a translation into Dutch and English will be 

made available to the parties simultaneously with the French version. These translations will also 

be published on the DPA website.  

20.  The DPA also accepts the underlying supporting documents in French and Dutch, as well as in 

English3. The fact that some of the central reports in these proceedings and in the complaints filed 

are in English has also been taken into consideration.  

21.  Given  the  importance  of  transparency  in  the  decision-making  process  and  the  decisions  of  the 

Litigation chamber, as well as the specificity and public interest of this decision, it will be published 

on the website of the Data Protection Authority. In view of the previous publicity on this case, the 

Litigation  chamber  decided  not  to  delete  the  direct  identification  data  of  the  parties  and  the 

persons named, whether natural or legal persons. 

 

 

 

 

3 See in particular decision 61/2020, point 29. 

Interlocutary Decision 01/2021 - 6/6 

FOR THESE REASONS,  

THE LITIGATION CHAMBER  

Decides, after deliberation:  

- 

to conduct the proceedings in French, while allowing the parties to express themselves, both in 

their submissions and at the hearing, in French, Dutch or English; 

 

- 

not to provide translations of written documents submitted in any of these three languages; 

 

- 

to issue the final decision in French, and to communicate simultaneously to the parties a Dutch 

and English version, which will also be made available on the DPA website.  

Given the impact of this case, and insofar as this issue is raised for the first time before the Litigation 

chamber, following an exchange of conflicting views of the parties on this specific issue, the Litigation 

chamber has adopted an interlocutory decision instead of a position on the procedure.  

An appeal against this interlocutory decision can be lodged with the Court of Commerce within 30 days 

of its notification (art. 108 § 1 of the DPA Act of 3 December 2017) with the Data Protection Authority 

as defendant.  

 

 

(pp) Hielke Hijmans  

President of the Litigation chamber 

 

 

 

 

