GUIDE ON PRESENCE CONTROL TREATMENTS THROUGH BIOMETRIC SYSTEMS

v. November 2023

Page: 2 of 31

INDEX
I. INTRODUCTION 4
A. Biometric systems and data 4
B. The biometric template as personal data 4
C. Presence control treatment 6
   1. Workday registration 6
   2. Access control for work purposes 7
   3. Access control for other purposes 7
II. DATA MINIMIZATION PRINCIPLE AND DATA PROTECTION BY DESIGN 7
A. Minimization in presence control treatment 8
B. Minimization in biometric information collection techniques 8
III. BIOMETRICS IN PRESENCE CONTROL TREATMENT 8
A. Biometric data as one of the means to implement treatment 10
B. Biometric identification and authentication 10
C. Additional purposes in presence control treatment based on biometric data 12
IV. BIOMETRIC DATA AND SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF DATA 12
A. Identification and authentication as special categories of data 12
B. Biometric data and its connection with other special categories of data 13
V. LIFTING THE PROHIBITION ON PROCESSING SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF DATA 14
A. Exception of Art. 9.2.b GDPR: presence control for workday registration and access control for work purposes 14
   1. Art. 9.2.b GDPR: Existence of a legal norm 14
   2. Art. 9.2.b GDPR: Necessity 16
   3. Art. 9.2.b GDPR: Suitability 17
B. Exception of Art. 9.2.a GDPR: presence control for workday registration, access control (for work or non-work purposes) 18
   1. Workday registration and access control for work purposes 19
   2. Access control for non-work purposes 21
VI. REQUEST FOR TREATMENT 21
A. Workday registration treatment 21
B. Access control for work purposes or other purposes 22
VII. AUTOMATED DECISIONS 22

Page: 3 of 31
VIII. RISK MANAGEMENT AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT FOR DATA PROTECTION (DPIA) 23
A. High risk 23
B. Conducting and surpassing a DPIA 24
C. Surpassing the analysis of suitability, necessity, and proportionality 26
D. Implementation 27
E. Context of treatment 27
F. Minimum default measures 27
G. Personal data breaches 28
IX. OUTSOURCING OF WORKERS 29
X. CONCLUSIONS 29

Page: 4 of 31
I. INTRODUCTION
This document will establish the criteria for presence control treatment through biometric systems in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016, on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation, hereinafter "GDPR"). 
Biometric systems and the processing of data obtained from them are evolving very rapidly. New systems increase the detail of the information collected, allow for the possibility of collecting information without the cooperation of the individual, sometimes without their awareness. Through information available online and from greater distances, it is possible to process biometric information. The development of Artificial Intelligence allows for the inference of additional information about the subject, even using sensitive data categories. Biometric data can be collected and used transversally across multiple physical and Internet services. 
As a consequence, changes have occurred in the regulatory, social, and technological context, even in a short and recent period, which necessitate considering the limits on the processing of biometric data and the measures that must be established to ensure that any personal data processing that decides to use biometric systems complies with the GDPR, or other regulations that impact these systems, in the case of being based on artificial intelligence techniques, such as the future European Regulation on Artificial Intelligence. 
A. BIOMETRIC SYSTEMS AND DATA
Biometric data processing systems are based on collecting and processing personal data related to the physical, physiological, or behavioral characteristics of natural persons, which may include, as has been recently highlighted, their neural characteristics, through devices or sensors, creating biometric templates (also referred to as signatures or patterns) that enable the identification, tracking, or profiling of such individuals (that is, "processing," Art. 4.2 of the GDPR). 
The GDPR defines in Art. 4.14 biometric data as "personal data resulting from a specific technical processing, related to the physical, physiological, or behavioral characteristics of a natural person which allow or confirm the unique identification of that person, such as facial images or fingerprint data." In the definition, it is established that all data that allow the identification or authentication of a person are biometric data. 
B. THE BIOMETRIC TEMPLATE AS PERSONAL DATA
Art. 4.1 of the GDPR defines personal data as:
1) "personal data": any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person ("the data subject"); an identifiable natural person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier, such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier, or one or more
Page: 5 of 31  
elements inherent to the physical, physiological, genetic, psychological, economic, cultural, or social identity of that person;  
Identifying a person, as a result of this provision, is to determine the identity, directly or indirectly, of the person. Assigning an identifier is, therefore, a process that allows for the individualization of a person and, consequently, the actions directed towards them. In particular, among other possible means, through "elements inherent to the physical, physiological, genetic, psychological identity." In this sense, a treatment that allows for the individualization of a person among several using, for example, a behavioral biometric analysis process that differentiates and uniquely identifies a person, is a process of identification.  
Recital 51, concerning biometric data, explains:  
The processing of photographs should not be systematically considered as processing of special categories of personal data, as they are only included in the definition of biometric data when the fact of being processed with specific technical means allows for the unequivocal identification or authentication of a natural person.  
A photograph, when captured and stored in a digital system, is encoded in a standard format using zeros and ones. The form of encoding used is aimed at being able to reproduce the image so that it can be interpretable by a human again. Thus, Recital 51 of the GDPR, when it states that the processing of photographs "... should not be systematically considered as processing of special categories ...", is highlighting that the content of that photograph or an additional treatment may become a processing of special categories of data.  
A biometric data contained in a system is stored in the form of a biometric template or pattern. A biometric template is a form of writing of a human biometric characteristic, such as a face or a fingerprint, in such a way that it is interpretable by a machine efficiently and effectively for a specific purpose or purposes. The biometric template is not intended to be interpreted by a person, like a photograph, but is intended to be processed in an automated process, that is, to be efficiently and effectively interpretable by a machine. This form of storage would allow for the individualization of an individual and the execution of actions automatically, profiling or inferring information about a subject such as attitudes or behavior patterns, etc.  
In the case of identification or authentication operations, for a biometric template to be effective, it is necessary that the templates generated from two different individuals are clearly distinguishable. In that case, the template acts as a unique identifier of the person. The fact that, from a biometric template, for example, of facial recognition, the original face cannot be reconstructed is irrelevant, as it is a unique identifier that singularizes it unequivocally, at least within the framework of an automated processing. Similarly, from just the ID number, one cannot reconstruct a name or a face. Both unique identifiers, biometric template or ID number, can be associated with personal data and additional attributes in a file. Unlike an ID number, the biometric template is not assigned to a person but is generated directly from the observation of unique and unalterable physical characteristics of the individual themselves, without the need to resort to documents, other devices, or third-party databases.  

2 Convention for the protection of individuals with regard to the automated processing of personal data (Convention 108+) Explanatory Report, paragraph 60 “Processing images of persons with thick glasses, a broken leg, burnt skin or any other visible characteristics related to a person’s health can only be considered as processing sensitive data when the processing is based on the health information that can be extracted from the pictures.”
Page: 6 of 31  
Therefore, a biometric template for the purpose of identification or authentication is a personal data per se and a unique identifier.  
C.  
THE TREATMENT OF ATTENDANCE CONTROL  
Attendance control is a treatment that can serve various purposes and is subject to the effective compliance with data protection regulations, without prejudice to the specific provisions established in the regulation for each of the cases, depending on the applicable regulations in each instance.  
On one hand, the time registration is a treatment of attendance control that would be framed within an employment relationship, with the purpose of monitoring its development. On the other hand, access control is a treatment of attendance control that would be linked to the purpose of supervising entry and/or exit to certain premises. The latter may or may not be carried out within the workplace and for work-related purposes. Both, as treatments of personal data, must comply in all cases with the principles, rights, and obligations established in the GDPR. The fact of implementing them through a biometric system implies, moreover, additional considerations for compliance with the GDPR.  
Time Registration  
Regarding time registration, Royal Decree-Law 8/2019, of March 8, on urgent measures for social protection and the fight against labor precariousness in the working day establishes in its Chapter III "Measures to combat labor precariousness in the working day," and in its Article 10 regulates time registration as a way to combat labor precariousness, through a modification of Article 34 of the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute (hereinafter ET), approved by Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, of October 23, adding a new section 9, with the following wording:  
“9. The company shall guarantee the daily registration of working hours, which must include the specific start and end times of each worker's working day, without prejudice to the flexible hours established in this article. Through collective bargaining or company agreement or, failing that, a decision by the employer after consulting the legal representatives of the workers in the company, this attendance record shall be organized and documented. The company shall retain the records referred to in this provision for four years and they shall remain available to the workers, their legal representatives, and the Labor and Social Security Inspectorate.”  
As specified in section V of the Explanatory Memorandum of the aforementioned Royal Decree-Law 8/2019, the purpose of the established obligation is to ensure compliance with the limits regarding working hours, create a framework of legal certainty for both workers and companies, and enable control by the Labor and Social Security Inspectorate, as a means to correct the situation of precariousness, low wages, and poverty that affects many workers who suffer abuses in their working hours.  

3 Article 29 Working Group Document on Biometrics WP80 of August 1, 2003 section 3.8 Unique Identifier
Page: 7 of 31  
Access Control for Employment Purposes  
In relation to access control for employment purposes, this is usually based on the provision contained in Article 20.3 of Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, of October 23, which approves the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute, which establishes that:  
“3. The employer may adopt the measures they deem most appropriate for surveillance and control to verify compliance by the worker with their obligations and labor duties, taking due consideration of their dignity and, where applicable, taking into account the actual capacity of workers with disabilities.”  
Access Control for Other Purposes  
Regardless of the obligation to register working hours or access control for employment purposes, there are cases where it is also necessary to carry out a presence control that does not necessarily relate to an employment relationship. In this situation, the aim is to achieve a different purpose that consists of supervising user or client access to certain premises or spaces, or that is necessary for the execution of a contract for, for example, the enjoyment of certain services.  
II.  
DATA MINIMIZATION PRINCIPLE AND DATA PROTECTION BY DESIGN  
One of the principles of the GDPR is the principle of minimization, which is established in Article 5, paragraph 1, letter c, stating that data shall be:  
“adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed (‘data minimization’);”  
Recital 39 clearly explains that data that is not necessary to fulfill the purpose of processing should not be processed:  
“…Personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be fulfilled by other means…”  
The data being processed must be limited to what is necessary to achieve the purposes of the processing. In the case at hand, the purpose of a presence control processing is not to process biometric data.  
The application of this principle extends to both the obligation to consider the condition of necessity and to take into account (Article 24.1 GDPR) the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, as established in Article 25, paragraph 1 of the GDPR:  
1. Taking into account the state of the art, the cost of implementation, and the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of varying probability and severity that the processing entails for the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the data controller shall apply, both at the time of determining the means of processing and at the time of the processing itself, appropriate technical and organizational measures, such as pseudonymization, designed to effectively apply the principles of  
4 There are processes in which the use of biometric data is part of their purpose, such as a process related to the research of biometric techniques, where the condition of necessity would indeed be fulfilled.
Page: 8 of 31  
data protection, such as data minimization, and integrate the necessary safeguards in the processing, in order to comply with the requirements of this Regulation and protect the rights of the data subjects.  
A.  
MINIMIZATION IN PRESENCE CONTROL PROCESSING  
According to the provisions of Articles 5.1(c) and 25.1, in a presence control processing, only the data necessary for achieving those purposes must be processed, and no more than what is necessary. Likewise, this minimization must be applied when the processing, among others, as occurs when biometric systems are involved, poses a risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.  
Therefore, the necessity of additional data processing must be justified when the same purposes have been achieved and can be achieved with another type of implementation of equivalent and less intrusive time recording processing.  
It is neither mandatory nor advisable for the implementation of a processing to be limited exclusively to the selection of technological resources. In the options for implementing a processing, consideration must be given, among others, to the use of human resources, legal safeguards, and organizational procedures. Therefore, in the evaluation of equivalent and less intrusive alternatives, options that are not solely technological must be explored.  
B.  
MINIMIZATION IN BIOMETRIC INFORMATION COLLECTION TECHNIQUES  
The various products available in the market for the collection of biometric data that record such data with a precision, detail, or frequency that far exceeds the needs of a specific processing violate the principle of minimization.  
In many cases, simply because the technology allows it and is affordable, these products collect much more information than is actually necessary for the purpose of the processing, or in much greater detail. The fact that a technology allows for the extraction of more information than is essential for the purpose of the processing does not justify its use. In selecting technologies for the implementation of processing operations, the principle of data minimization (Article 5.1(c) GDPR) must be followed, which stipulates that personal data must be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed, so that personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing could not reasonably be achieved by other means (Recital 39). Even if the use of biometric operations is fully justified and legitimized, and the prohibition on processing special categories of data is lifted (Article 9.1 GDPR), when the controller chooses a specific biometric technology to implement presence control processing, they must apply the principle of data minimization by design (Article 25.1 GDPR), selecting and/or configuring the system to suit the specific needs of the processing, and objectively evaluate or obtain an evaluation whose result is that no unnecessary data is collected to fulfill the purpose of the processing, particularly special categories of data (Article 35 GDPR).  
Therefore, in biometric systems for presence control, an objective assessment must be conducted to determine whether excessive data is being collected for the purpose of the processing (see section IV.B of this document).  
III. BIOMETRICS IN PRESENCE CONTROL PROCESSING  
Article 4.2 of the GDPR defines "processing" as:
Page: 9 of 31  
“any operation or set of operations performed on personal data or sets of personal data, whether by automated means or not, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, adaptation or modification, extraction, consultation, use, communication by transmission, dissemination or any other form of enabling access, comparison or interconnection, restriction, erasure or destruction;”  
The GDPR aims (art. 1) to establish rules regarding the protection of natural persons in relation to the processing of personal data and the rules regarding the free movement of such data.  
The Court of Justice of the European Union (hereinafter CJEU) has established a broad interpretation of both the concept of “personal data” and the concept of “data processing,” in pursuit of the declared objective of the GDPR to ensure a uniform and high level of protection for natural persons within the Union and to reinforce and specify the rights of data subjects (recitals 10 and 11 GDPR, and paragraph 55 of the CJEU judgment of June 22, 2023, C-579/21, Pankki S).  
Thus, in paragraphs 42 to 46 of the judgment C-579/21, Pankki S, cited, the CJEU establishes:  
42  
The use of the expression “any information” in the definition of the concept of “personal data,” which appears in that provision [art. 4.1 GDPR], evidences the objective of the Union legislator to attribute to this concept a very broad meaning, which can encompass all kinds of information, both objective and subjective, in the form of opinions or assessments, as long as they are “about” the person in question (judgment of May 4, 2023, Österreichische Datenschutzbehörde and CRIF, C-487/21, EU:C:2023:369, paragraph 23).  
43      In this regard, it has been stated that information refers to an identified or identifiable natural person when, due to its content, purpose, or effects, the information is related to an identifiable person (judgment of May 4, 2023, Österreichische Datenschutzbehörde and CRIF, C-487/21, EU:C:2023:369, paragraph 24).  
44      Regarding the “identifiable” nature of a person, recital 26 of the GDPR specifies that “all means, such as singling out, that can reasonably be used by the data controller or any other person to identify the natural person directly or indirectly” must be taken into account.  
45      As a result, the broad definition of the concept of “personal data” encompasses not only the data collected and stored by the data controller but also all information resulting from the processing of personal data that relates to an identified or identifiable person (see, in this regard, the judgment of May 4, 2023, Österreichische Datenschutzbehörde and CRIF, C-487/21, EU:C:2023:369, paragraph 26).  
46      Secondly, regarding the concept of “processing,” as defined in Article 4, point 2, of the GDPR, it should be noted that by using the expression “any operation,” the Union legislator intended to give this concept a broad scope, employing a non-exhaustive enumeration of operations applied to personal data or sets of personal data, which include, among other things, collection, recording, storage, or even consultation (see, in this regard, the judgment of May 4, 2023,
Page: 10 of 31  
Austrian  
Data Protection Authority  
and  
CRIF,  
C-487/21,  
EU:C:2023:369,  
paragraph 27).  
A.  
BIOMETRICS AS ONE OF THE MEANS TO IMPLEMENT THE PROCESSING  
The techniques and technologies used in the implementation of a processing are part of its nature. The operations of a processing can be implemented in various ways: whether manual or automated processes, and the latter can be realized with different technologies. Due to the complexity of the available technologies, these may imply an expansion of the scope of the processing concerning the categories of data processed, such as, for example, in the case of processes implemented on a web portal, which involves the collection of identifiers such as IP addresses, cookies, device signatures, etc.  
If the processing of personal data consists of the daily recording of working hours, “time recording,” a varied set of operations is required, which may include the identification of the employee, the collection of their personal data, their storage, the identification and authentication of the employee in the clocking-in process, the recording of time and other possible data (such as locations), its processing to determine excesses or absences in hours, its conservation, the provision of information to the Labor Inspection, etc.  
A similar situation occurs when the aim is to control access to certain places for purposes other than work-related ones, as a set of operations is required; however, in this case, it is not about identifying an employee to account for their working hours, but simply to identify the entry of a person and, in some cases, also their exit.  
All these operations could be executed using various human, technical, and organizational means, whether through the presentation of documents, the verification of their integrity, the cross-checking of shared information, the use of keys or certificates, the use of physical tokens, the behavioral analysis of the truthfulness of their statements, processing through automatic analysis of mouse movement or other input/output devices, biometric analysis of handwritten signatures, fingerprints, hands, voice, facial recognition, iris recognition, etc. Even with a combination of several of them, such as, for example, using different biometric systems (multibiometrics) with varying degrees of human intervention.  
A controller of a presence control processing could decide, in principle and to the detriment of other solutions, to use biometric systems to implement the presence control processing. In that case, biometric processing will not be a processing with an end in itself, but rather a means to carry out operations within the processing. This choice made by the controller implies an additional processing of data, in this case biometric data, for which it will be necessary to assess its compliance with the GDPR.  
B.  
BIOMETRIC IDENTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION  
Identification and authentication are operations that are not defined in the GDPR. However, they are defined in another piece of European legislation, namely Regulation 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of July 23, 2014, on electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (eIDAS Regulation). In Article 3 of the eIDAS Regulation, these terms are defined as follows:
Page: 11 of 31  
1 "electronic identification," the process of using the identification data of a person in electronic format that uniquely represents a natural or legal person or a natural person representing a legal person;  
5 "authentication," an electronic process that enables the electronic identification of a natural or legal person, or the origin and integrity of data in electronic format;  
That is to say, this regulation considers authentication as an electronic process that enables identification.  
In an informal or intuitive manner, the concept of identification can be explained as the process by which a particular individual is recognized within a group, comparing the data of the individual to be identified with the data of each individual in the group (one-to-many). Verification or authentication would be the process of proving that the identity claimed by an individual is true, comparing the data of the individual solely with the data associated with the claimed identity (one-to-one).  
The initial operations of biometric identification or authentication in the biometric attendance control process are carried out during the registration of the employee or during the registration of a person to access a space or activity. In this process, it is necessary to correctly identify the person; otherwise, the entire attendance control process could be flawed. To do this, a series of verifiable attributes of their identity are collected. Thus, the individual could be identified with their ID card and then additional data could be collected during the registration process, in particular, their biometric data. However, it could also be the case that the presented documents, for example, the ID card, are authenticated through biometric analysis of the correspondence between the photo on the ID card and the image of the person present, resulting in an authentication operation (one-to-one). Alternatively, biometric data could be collected first to identify them against a database of attribute storage (such as name or ID number) in a one-to-many search (one-to-many), resulting in an identification operation.  
Subsequently, a regular process of monitoring the person is carried out with the aim of collecting their start/end workday data or entry and, where applicable, exit from a specific place or space. In the case of using biometric systems, this can be done through an identification process, where the biometric data is collected to compare it with a database that stores attributes such as name or employee number (one-to-many). For the process to be authentication, it would need to be implemented in reverse; identification would first be carried out using, for example, an identity card, and subsequently, the individual would be authenticated biometrically against the data stored in the system associated with the identity attributes.  
Therefore, in an attendance control process, whether for workday registration or access control (for work purposes or other purposes), that employs biometric systems, there could be different implementation alternatives: either (i) based on two identification operations, (ii) based on one authentication and one identification, or (iii) based on a single authentication operation.  

5 In the latest draft of the proposed amendment to the eIDAS Regulation, "authentication" is defined as an electronic process that allows confirming the electronic identification of a natural or legal person, or the origin and integrity of data in electronic form;
Page: 12 of 31  
However, the case law could be even more complex for specific treatments, and the responsible party must describe in detail the biometric operations that are carried out within the framework of a time registration in each case.  
C.  
ADDITIONAL PURPOSES IN A PRESENCE CONTROL TREATMENT BASED ON BIOMETRIC DATA  
The biometric data collected within the framework of presence control treatment is susceptible to being used (“processed”) for other purposes or objectives different from the initial ones, as these are treatments that ultimately identify a person in one way or another; for example, a time registration could be used for other issues: physical security, access control to certain spaces or resources of the entity itself, performance evaluation, etc.  
All these purposes, which are often presented as additional advantages to the decision to implement time registration treatment or access control with biometric operations, must be considered treatments with purposes distinct for the effects of personal data protection regulations. Therefore, the possibility of executing such treatments depends on compliance with all the principles, rights, and obligations established in the GDPR.  
IV. BIOMETRIC DATA AND SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF DATA  
Article 9, paragraph 1, of the GDPR establishes a general rule prohibiting the processing of personal data that reveals what it calls “special categories of personal data.”  
A.  
IDENTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION AS SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF DATA  
In Article 9, paragraph 1, among these special category data, are “biometric data aimed at uniquely identifying a natural person.”  
Recital 51, when mentioning biometric data, interprets that this concept includes those data of such a nature when their processing with specific technical means allows for the unique identification or authentication of a natural person.  
The processing of photographs should not be systematically considered as processing of special categories of personal data, as they are only included in the definition of biometric data when the fact of being processed with specific technical means allows for the unique identification or authentication of a natural person. Such personal data should not be processed unless their processing is permitted in specific situations contemplated in this Regulation, …”6  
The Guidelines 05/2022 of the European Data Protection Board (EDPB), on the use of facial recognition in the field of law enforcement (see Version 2.0, of April 26, 2023), determine, in their paragraph 12, that the concept of biometric data encompasses both “authentication” and “identification,” and although they are distinct concepts, in both procedures data aimed at identifying a natural person is processed, so both are included in the concept of “data processing,” and more specifically, they are processing of special categories of personal data. In  

6 The highlighting is not in the original.
Page: 13 of 31  
Consequently, the general prohibition established in Article 9.1 of the GDPR extends to both, so this prohibition must apply not only to processing aimed at identification but also to cases of biometric data processing aimed at the authentication or verification of the person with respect to the previously established pattern for that person.  
The Spanish Agency for Data Protection published in May 2021 the guide "Data Protection in Labor Relations," in which the section "Biometric Data" of chapter 4.6 addressed the use of biometrics in the implementation of attendance record processing. The text interpreted biometric authentication outside of the special categories of data. However, this interpretation has been superseded by the aforementioned Guidelines, so the interpretation of this AEPD must adapt to the Guidelines of the EDPB mentioned on April 26, 2023.  
Similarly, the interpretation that this AEPD made of these types of processing in its Legal Report 036/2020, based on, among other documents, the Opinion 3/2012 of the Article 29 Working Party (WP29), regarding the evolution of biometric technologies—published at a time, 2012, when neither biometric data had the consideration of special category (only from the entry into force of the GDPR in 2016)—must also be considered superseded by the new position of the EDPB, as set out in the aforementioned Guidelines 05/2022.  
In short, it must be considered that, just as in the case of identification, biometric authentication is a process that involves the processing of special categories of personal data.  
B.  
BIOMETRICS AND ITS LINKAGE TO OTHER SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF DATA  
The consideration of special category data must be interpreted broadly. Article 9.1 of the GDPR establishes that special categories of data are those that "reveal" certain types of information. The term "reveal" must be understood in the sense that, in addition to data that by their nature contain sensitive information, data from which sensitive information relating to a person can be inferred are also special categories. In the same vein, the conclusions of the CJEU state that "with regard to the purpose of the Directive, the expression 'data concerning health' used in Article 8(1) should also be given a broad interpretation to include information concerning all aspects, physical and mental, of an individual's health."  
In this sense, the interpretation of biometric data as special categories of data must take into account the possibility that, through biometric analysis, other special categories of data can be inferred and collected, particularly health data or data that reveal racial or ethnic origin, among others.  
Technological development is increasingly allowing for the extraction of more details from a person's biometric traits. For example, a biometric analysis of the human voice can collect more than one hundred different parameters that allow for the extraction of health information, physical or psychological problems, among others. In biometric systems based on facial recognition, data that reveal racial or ethnic origin can be processed, and health information, physical or psychological problems can also be extracted, as in the case of...  

7 Page 6 of the Article 29 Working Party document Advice paper on special categories of data (“sensitive data”).  
8 CJEU, November 6, 2003, Bodil Lindqvist, C-101/01, paragraph 50  
9 Article 29 Working Party Document on Biometrics WP80 of August 1, 2003, section 3.7 Sensitive Data
Page: 14 of 31  
voice, including some fingerprint identification systems that allow the recording of parameters such as temperature or blood pressure.  

V.  
LIFTING OF THE PROHIBITION ON PROCESSING SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF DATA  
The special protection established by the GDPR in its Art. 9 for certain categories of data derives from the impact that the processing of such data may have on the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals.  
The prohibition on processing special category data can only be lifted when one of the circumstances specified in paragraph 2 of Art. 9 of the GDPR applies. The data controller has the obligation to seriously and diligently assess whether there is a solid reason to process special categories listed in said Art. 9.2 of the GDPR. Among the enumerated circumstances, legitimate interest, the execution of a contract, or pre-contractual measures are not included.  

A.  
EXCEPTION OF ART. 9.2.B GDPR: ATTENDANCE CONTROL FOR WORKDAY RECORDING AND ACCESS CONTROL FOR WORK PURPOSES.  
Art. 9.2.b GDPR: Existence of a legal norm  
In Art. 9 of the GDPR, paragraph 2, letter b), the prohibition on processing special categories of data is lifted when  
“the processing is necessary for compliance with obligations and the exercise of specific rights of the data controller or the data subject in the field of labor law and social security and protection, to the extent that it is authorized by the law of the Union of the Member States or a collective agreement under the law of the Member States that establishes adequate guarantees for the respect of fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject.”  

It should also be noted that the reference to authorization by the law of the EU Member States must be understood, in the case of the Spanish State, as relating to the existence of a legal norm in accordance with the provisions of Art. 53.1 of the Spanish Constitution, as it pertains to the development of a right, that of personal data protection, recognized as fundamental. In this regard, the ruling of the Constitutional Court 76/2019, of May 22, specifies that the legal norm must meet all the essential characteristics as a guarantee of legal certainty, expressing each and every one of the prerequisites and conditions of the intervention, so that limitations on the fundamental right established by a law may violate the Constitution if they lack certainty and predictability.  

Specifically, the Constitutional Court, in the aforementioned STC 76/2019, of May 22, after citing, among others, its previous STC 292/2000, of November 30, states:  
- Secondly, by express mandate of the Constitution, any state interference in the realm of fundamental rights and public freedoms, whether it directly affects their development (Art. 81.1 CE) or limits or conditions their exercise (Art. 53.1 CE), requires a legal authorization (see, among others, STC 49/1999, of April 5,  

10 The highlighting is not present in the original.
Page: 15 of 31  
FJ 4). In STC 49/1999, FJ 4, we defined the constitutional function of this law reserve in the following terms:  
This law reserve, to which the Spanish Constitution generally subjects the regulation of fundamental rights and public freedoms recognized in its Title I, performs a dual function, namely: on the one hand, it ensures that the rights attributed to citizens by the Constitution are not affected by any unauthorized state interference by their representatives; and, on the other hand, in a legal system like ours where Judges and Magistrates are subject "only to the rule of Law" and there is, in essence, no binding precedent (SSTC 8/1981, 34/1995, 47/1995, and 96/1996), it constitutes, ultimately, the only effective way to guarantee the demands of legal certainty in the realm of fundamental rights and public freedoms. Therefore, regarding our legal system, we have characterized legal certainty as a sum of legality and certainty of the Law (STC 27/1981, legal foundation 10).  
This dual function of the law reserve translates into a dual requirement: on one hand, the necessary intervention of the law to enable the interference; and, on the other hand, that legal norm "must meet all those indispensable characteristics as a guarantee of legal certainty," that is, "it must express each and every one of the assumptions and conditions of the intervention" (STC 49/1999, FJ 4). In other words, "it not only excludes empowerments in favor of regulatory norms [...], but it also implies other requirements regarding the content of the Law that establishes such limits" (STC 292/2000, FJ 15).  
The second requirement mentioned constitutes the qualitative dimension of the law reserve and is specified in the requirements of predictability and certainty of the restrictive measures in the realm of fundamental rights. In STC 292/2000, FJ 15, we pointed out that, even having a constitutional basis, the limitations of the fundamental right established by a law "can violate the Constitution if they lack certainty and predictability in the very limits they impose and their mode of application," since "the lack of precision of the law in the material assumptions of the limitation of a fundamental right is likely to generate an indeterminacy regarding the cases to which such restriction applies"; "when this result occurs, beyond any reasonable interpretation, the law no longer fulfills its function of guaranteeing the very fundamental right it restricts, as it allows simply the will of the one who must apply it to operate instead." In the same ruling and legal foundation, we also specified the type of violation that the lack of certainty and predictability in the very limits entails: "it would not only harm the principle of legal certainty (Article 9.3 CE), conceived as certainty about the applicable legal framework and a reasonably founded expectation of the person regarding what the action of the power applying the Law should be (STC 104/2000, FJ 7, among others), but at the same time, such law would be harming the essential content of the fundamental right thus restricted, given that the manner in which its limits have been set makes it unrecognizable and practically impossible to exercise (SSTC 11/1981, FJ 15; 142/1993, of April 22, FJ 4, and 341/1993, of November 18, FJ 7)."  
And in section 16 of STC 292/2000, again cited by STC 76/2019, it specifies:  

11 The highlighting is not in the original.
Page: 16 of 31  
(…) It is the legislator who must determine when that good or right exists that justifies the restriction of the right to the protection of personal data and under what circumstances it can be limited, and, furthermore, it is he who must do so through precise rules that make the imposition of such limitation and its consequences foreseeable for the interested party. Otherwise, the legislator would have transferred to the administration the performance of a function that only he is competent to carry out in matters of fundamental rights by virtue of the legal reservation of Article 53.1 of the Spanish Constitution, that is, to clearly establish the limit and its regulation.  
This implies, as the Opinion 2/2022 of the Catalan Data Protection Authority rightly points out, that “the impact of the right to the protection of data derived from the norm must be foreseeable” and that “the norm cannot be considered foreseeable if it does not specify the possibility of using biometric data for the purpose of conducting time control.”  
This necessitates reconsidering the interpretation made by this AEPD in the section “Biometric Data” of Chapter 4.6 of the Guide “Data Protection in Labor Relations” from May 2021; and, as also concluded by the Transparency and Data Protection Council in its Opinion 1/2023, “Regarding the processing of special categories of biometric data through the use of facial recognition and/or fingerprint devices for the time control of personnel in a City Council,” the current Spanish legal regulations do not contain any sufficiently specific authorization to consider the processing of biometric data necessary for the purpose of time control of the workday. The sufficiently specific authorization is not found for labor personnel, since Articles 20.3 and 34.9 of Royal Legislative Decree 2/2015, of October 23, which approves the consolidated text of the Workers' Statute, do not contain such authorization. Nor is it found for personnel subject to an administrative legal relationship, as the provision related to compliance with working hours and schedules referred to in Article 54.2 of the consolidated text of the Basic Statute of Public Employees (EBEP), approved by Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, of October 30, does not constitute a necessary habilitation.  
Article 9.2.b GDPR: Necessity  
Article 9.2.b) of the GDPR, in relation to processing in the field of labor law and social security and protection, not only requires that there be a legal authorization - or collective agreement - but also imposes as a primary requirement that the processing be “necessary.”  
Automatic time control systems have existed since 1890, and attendance records have been kept for several centuries through non-biometric means. For example, in the 1980s, there were more than twelve million workers in Spain subjected to time control. The largest vehicle factory in Spain at that time had more than 30,000 workers, a figure that currently does not reach half. Ultimately, within the framework of large volumes of workers, the employer had the authority and capacity to establish time control.  

12 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Time_clock  
13 https://elpais.com/diario/1981/03/12/economia/353199602_850215.html  
14 https://infogram.com/evolucion-empleados-seat-1g4qpz7vxgd8m1y  
15 https://www.seat-mediacenter.es/smc/seat-sa/facilitiespage/martorell-production-facility#:~:text=En%20sus%2015%20edificios%20trabajan,por%20carretera%2C%20mar%20y%20tren.
Page: 17 of 31  
The person responsible for such treatments, when proposing biometric operations, must justify the circumstances under which it is no longer possible to use the attendance recording systems that were being employed at the same center until that moment, or that are being used in equivalent entities. Furthermore, they must justify that the use of other existing systems such as cards, certificates, keys, contactless systems, etc., which avoid the processing of special categories of data, are not suitable. It should also be noted that the processing of personal data may also involve human intervention, meaning there is no obligation for it to be implemented exclusively through technological means. Such human intervention can be the appropriate complement to other options.  
In the same vein, the biometric information process must be essential to meet the purpose of attendance recording, as established by Opinion 3/2012 of the Article 29 Working Party, regarding the evolution of biometric technologies:  
“… it is necessary to consider beforehand whether the system is necessary to respond to the identified need, that is, whether it is essential to satisfy that need, and not just the most appropriate or cost-effective. A second factor that must be taken into account is the likelihood that the system will be effective in addressing the need in question in light of the specific characteristics of the biometric technology to be used.”  
Therefore, the assessment of necessity must be supported by objective evidence, with a broad view of the context and avoiding being guided solely by technological trends. When the evaluation involves elements other than the purpose of the processing or the protection of rights, such as economic, employment, or market technique constraints (like impulsive buying), or the possibility of obtaining consent for additional treatments, a rigorous assessment of the proportionality of the processing must be conducted.  
In conclusion, as previously indicated, Article 5.1.c and Recital 39 of the GDPR must be taken into account, which states that personal data should only be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by other means. Again, it is noted that a prior analysis must be conducted regarding the necessity of such processing for achieving the purpose intended by the data controller, in the sense that there is no equally effective and less intrusive means, before the implementation of any system; and all of this must be evaluated from the Principle of data protection by design, focusing the analysis on the rights and freedoms of the individuals whose data will be processed, within that first step. For this purpose, a corresponding risk analysis should be conducted, and the impact assessment should be surpassed, taking into account the triple test of suitability, necessity, and proportionality.  
Art. 9.2.b GDPR: Suitability  
In any case, the law - or collective agreement - that establishes the processing must respect the principle of proportionality, as recalled by the Constitutional Court Judgment 14/2003, of January 28:  
“In other words, in accordance with a reiterated doctrine of this Court, the constitutionality of any restrictive measure of fundamental rights is determined by the strict observance of the principle of proportionality. For the purposes that matter here, it is sufficient to recall that, to verify whether a restrictive measure of a fundamental right passes the proportionality test, it is necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three requirements or conditions: whether the...
Page: 18 of 31  
This measure is capable of achieving the proposed objective (suitability assessment); if, in addition, it is necessary, in the sense that there is no other more moderate measure to achieve such purpose with equal effectiveness (necessity assessment); and, finally, if it is balanced or proportionate, as it derives more benefits or advantages for the general interest than harms to other goods or conflicting values (strict proportionality assessment; STC 66/1995, of May 8, F. 5; STC 55/1996, of March 28, FF. 7, 8, and 9; STC 270/1996, of December 16, F. 4.e; STC 37/1998, of February 17, F. 8; STC 186/2000, of July 10, F. 6).”  
As established in Opinion 3/2012 of the Article 29 Working Party, regarding the evolution of biometric technologies:  
“… A second factor that must be taken into account is the likelihood that the system will be effective in addressing the need in question in light of the specific characteristics of the biometric technology to be used.”  
For a processing to be considered suitable, it must allow for the fulfillment of the ultimate purpose of the processing with adequate quality levels, taking into account that no processing is free from errors or the possibility of fraud.  
To this end, it is necessary to define metrics, not only regarding the performance of biometric systems but also concerning the necessary performance objectives in the processing for the recording of working hours. An objective analysis must be conducted on the adequacy of the different technical options for attendance recording, including biometric options, to these requirements.  
In particular, it must be determined whether there may be a lack of accuracy of the data obtained concerning the biometric operation due to not conforming to the average or standard human type according to the criteria of the data controller. This can materialize in biases in profiling, incorrect identifications, identity theft, discrimination in population segments (elderly, disabled, racial types, sick, etc.) or denial of access to services due to errors in data capture.  
B.  
EXCEPTION OF ART. 9.2.A OF THE GDPR: ATTENDANCE CONTROL FOR WORKING HOURS RECORDING, ACCESS CONTROL (FOR WORK PURPOSES OR NOT)  
The lifting of the prohibition on the processing of biometric data could be considered due to the concurrence of explicit consent from the data subject for the processing of such personal data for one or more of the specified purposes (unless expressly stated otherwise by Union law or its member states), as established in art. 9.2.a) of the GDPR.  
Art. 4.11 of the GDPR refers to the consent of the data subject as “any manifestation of will that is free, specific, informed, and unambiguous by which the data subject accepts, either by a statement or a clear affirmative action, the processing of personal data concerning them.” The information provided to the data subject must, among other things, make the data subjects aware of the risks of such processing (recital 39 of the GDPR), especially when it affects persons in vulnerable situations.16  

16 “They should also be informed on how the collection, use or sharing of facial recognition data is likely to affect them, especially when they concern persons in vulnerable situations. The information provided also has to state which rights and legal remedies the data subjects are entitled to.” Guidelines on Facial Recognition. Consultative Committee of The Convention for the Protection of Individuals with Regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data - Convention 108
Page: 19 of 31  
There are treatments that involve the use of biometric systems, different from access control, such as voluntarily participating in research on biometric identification techniques, in which the interested party could freely give consent to process their biometric data in order to participate as a test subject in said research. The purpose of such treatment is to process biometric data, and participating as a test subject freely implies the processing of biometric data.  
Work-related time registration and access control.  
In the treatment of time registration, the employee is obliged to participate in the treatment whose purpose is that registration and not the processing of biometric data. In this case, consent does not apply to the treatment of time registration itself, where there is no room for opposition, but rather to the additional treatment that involves biometric data.  
Thus, in the treatment of time registration and regarding the freedom of consent for that additional treatment of data, Recital 43 of the GDPR establishes that:  
“to ensure that consent has been given freely, it must not constitute a valid legal basis for the processing of personal data in a specific case where there is a clear imbalance between the data subject and the data controller, particularly when the controller is a public authority and it is therefore unlikely that consent has been given freely in all circumstances of that particular situation.”  
The conditions for considering consent are provided in Articles 4.11 and 7 of the GDPR, and the Guidelines 5/2020 of the EDPB on consent in the sense of the GDPR can also be referred to. In particular, these interpret that in the context of employment relationships, generally, there is a power imbalance between employee and employer that makes it unlikely that this consent is given freely, and therefore it should not be the legal basis. Furthermore, in this context, the consent of the data subject cannot serve in any case as a circumstance for lifting a prohibition on processing special categories of data. Thus, these Guidelines 5/2020 establish:  
21. Also in the context of employment, a power imbalance occurs. Given the dependency resulting from the relationship between employer and employee, it is unlikely that the data subject can deny their employer consent for data processing without experiencing fear or real risk that their refusal will have detrimental effects. It seems unlikely that an employee could respond freely to a request for consent from their employer to, for example, activate camera surveillance systems in the workplace or to fill out evaluation forms, without feeling pressured to give their consent.  
Therefore, the EDPB considers it problematic for employers to process personal data of current or future employees based on consent, as it is unlikely that this will be granted freely. In the case of most of these data processing activities at work, the legal basis cannot and should not be the consent of the workers [Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a)] due to the nature of the relationship between employer and employee.  
A limitation on the use of consent is explicitly made in the same Guidelines regarding the reliance on consent within the framework of public authorities:  
16. Recital 43 clearly indicates that it is unlikely that public authorities can rely on consent to carry out data processing.
Page: 20 of 31  
since when the data controller is a public authority, there is always a clear power imbalance in the relationship between the data controller and the data subject. It is also clear in most cases that the data subject will not have realistic alternatives to accept the processing (the processing conditions) of such a controller. The EDPB considers that there are other legal bases that are, in principle, more appropriate for the processing of data by public authorities.  
However, the door is left open for the controller to demonstrate that denying consent will not have adverse consequences for the data subject:  
22. Nevertheless, this does not mean that employers can never rely on consent as a legal basis for data processing. There may be situations where the employer can demonstrate that consent has been given freely. Given the power imbalance between an employer and the members of their staff, workers can only give their free consent in exceptional circumstances, when the fact that they grant or do not grant such consent does not have adverse consequences.  
In the case of time registration, as the data subject is obliged to register their working hours, the existence of free consent for additional data processing, in this case biometric data, could only be considered if the data subject has a freely chosen alternative to fulfill that obligation. In this regard, the same Guidelines interpret:  
37. The data controller could argue that their organization offers data subjects a real choice if they could choose between a service that includes consent for the use of personal data for additional purposes, and an equivalent service offered by the same controller that does not require consent for the use of data for additional purposes. As long as there is a possibility that such a data controller can execute the contract or provide the contracted services without consent for the other use or the additional use of the data in question, it will mean that there is no longer any conditionality regarding the service. However, both services must be truly equivalent.  
When there are genuinely equivalent options available to all workers, it could be examined whether the consent is valid, complying with the requirements of art. 4.11 of the GDPR and the other conditions of art. 7 of the GDPR. However, regarding this requirement of possible “equivalence of treatments,” it must be taken into account that if there are alternatives available to the processing of biometric data that involve less risk to the rights and freedoms of the individuals whose personal data are to be processed, which allow all workers to choose other alternatives at a given moment, the processing of biometric data ceases to be necessary for the implementation of the processing.  
Since the processing of biometric data is not necessary, it would not comply with the provisions of art. 5.1.c of the GDPR, and as will be explained later in Chapter VIII of this document, being a high-risk processing, it would therefore not meet the “necessity” requirement imposed by art. 5.1 and 35.7.b. If the processing is high-risk, in addition to being necessary, a positive necessity assessment must be demonstrated (art. 35.7.b of the GDPR); which in this case would not be fulfilled, precisely due to that lack of necessity.  
Therefore, in a time registration processing implemented with biometric techniques, the consent of the data subject does not lift the prohibition of processing, with
Page: 21 of 31  
general character, as there is a situation in which there is an imbalance with the data controller, as occurs in the context of an employment (or administrative/civil service) relationship, and it would not pass the necessity assessment, a requirement for high-risk processing (see section VIII.A).  
Access control for non-employment purposes  
A similar analysis could be established for access control for purposes other than employment. Consent must be free, specific, informed, and unambiguous. Among other things, the data controller must establish an alternative method to carry out access control, without any consequences for the person who does not wish to use access control through biometric data processing.  
In the same way as in the previous case, the objective necessity must be demonstrated (a requirement for high-risk processing, see section VIII.A) and the possible alternatives, so that in order to process that biometric data, there is no other alternative that serves to satisfy the identified necessity and that involves a lesser risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals.  
VI. LEGALITY OF PROCESSING  
If the prohibition on processing special categories of personal data, in this case biometric data, has not been lifted, it is irrelevant whether there is a legal basis as provided for in Article 6.1 of the GDPR, since there is already a condition that invalidates the processing.  
Once the prohibition has been lifted, it is necessary to analyze whether such processing is intended to be carried out under at least one of the conditions listed in Article 6.1 of the GDPR. That is to say, one should not propose a processing and then seek a condition of legality. On the contrary, there should be a condition (the cause) defined in Article 6.1 of the GDPR for a controller to decide to carry out processing (the effect).  
A.  
WORKING TIME RECORDING PROCESSING  
The recording of working time is a legal obligation imposed on the employer and the employee (Article 34.9 of the Workers' Statute), so the legal basis for the processing of working time records is in accordance with what is established in Article 6.1.c): "the processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the processing is subject," in connection with the reiterated Article 34.9 of the Workers' Statute, which establishes the obligation for the company to ensure a daily record of working hours that must include the specific start and end times of each worker's working day.  
In this case, if the lifting of the prohibition on additional processing of biometric data has been carried out based on what is established in Article 9.2.b) of the GDPR, there must be a norm with the rank of law that supports such an exception and, therefore, this norm will encompass the legality of the processing in accordance with Article 6.1.c).  
It has already been indicated previously that, for the purposes of lifting the prohibition of Article 9.2.b) of the GDPR, the aforementioned current regulation is not sufficient in the terms provided in the GDPR.  
On the other hand, instead of Article 9.2.b) of the GDPR, it has been possible to consider lifting the prohibition on additional processing of biometric data taking into account what is provided in Article 9.2.a) of the GDPR. In that case, in order to consider consent as free, there must be, as stated, the possibility of implementing equivalent options. If these exist in the processing itself, or it is feasible to implement them, and they are less intrusive in
Page: 22 of 31  
in relation to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, the requirement of "necessity" established in Article 6.1.c) of the GDPR would not be met, as already developed in the previous section.  
If the lifting of the prohibition on processing biometric data has been based on provisions other than Article 9.2.a) and Article 9.2.b), it is also necessary to ask whether there are other equivalent and less intrusive options to implement the time registration.  
The reality is that, in the arguments of many controllers justifying the lifting of the prohibition based on free consent by providing alternatives to the data subjects, they have made evident the possibility and viability of such alternatives. Therefore, even if the lifting of the prohibition has been based on provisions other than those of Article 9.2.a), this does not automatically imply that such alternatives do not exist. It may occur that the controller has decided not to implement the alternatives; in that case, the controller will have to objectively justify that they are indeed necessary in their specific case.  
The same reasoning would apply to any of the legal bases provided in Article 6.1. of the GDPR, from 6.1.b to 6.1.f, as the requirement of necessity for achieving the purpose, which is stated in each of those legal bases, must always be met.  
B.  
ACCESS CONTROL FOR WORK PURPOSES OR OTHER PURPOSES.  
In the event that the controller decides to base the legality of processing biometric data on Article 6.1.a) of the GDPR in a control of access for work purposes or for other purposes distinct from work, the conclusions reached in section V.B of this text are transferred.  
In the case of justifying the legality of using biometric data in access control treatments under other assumptions of Article 6.1 of the GDPR other than consent, the requirements of necessity, present in all of them, must be considered, in addition to the legal reservation requirements in letters c) and d), and also in the case of letter f) the overcoming of the analysis of prevalence between the legitimate interests of the controller and the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject that require the protection of personal data, particularly when the data subject is a child.  
VII. AUTOMATED DECISIONS  
Article 22 of the GDPR establishes restrictions and guarantees when an automated process without human intervention produces legal effects on the data subject or significantly affects them in a similar manner.  
A presence control treatment could be implemented by the controller as an automated process based on a biometric system without human intervention that produces legal effects on the data subject or significantly affects them in a similar manner. For example, when a system that controls access to a location denies such access for technical reasons and, by preventing access, and without the possibility of human intervention, has an automatic impact on the person, whether on the worker's salary or employment, among others. Another example is when it prevents a data subject from accessing a specific activity or service previously contracted or limits their freedom of movement.  
When the controller configures the presence control treatment in this way, it must be taken into account that, according to Article 22 of the GDPR, they cannot be based on special categories of data unless:
Page: 23 of 31  
• The lifting of the prohibition is based on consent (9.2.a) or essential public interest (9.2.g), both of which are from the GDPR.  
• And appropriate measures have been taken to safeguard the rights and freedoms and the legitimate interests of the data subject. Among such measures, at a minimum (art. 22.3 GDPR), the following must be included:  
  o The right to obtain human intervention by the controller,  
  o To express their point of view, and  
  o To contest the decision.  
Since article 9.2.a of the GDPR, as previously explained, and article 9.2.g of the GDPR do not apply, in the event that presence control is raised as a processing activity involving automated decisions without human intervention capable of reversing the decision, a biometric identification or authentication process cannot be used.  
VIII. RISK MANAGEMENT AND DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT (DPIA)  
The lifting of the prohibition on processing special categories of data and the existence of a legal basis for processing does not conclude the set of requirements that must be complied with to determine that the processing is in accordance with the GDPR, and therefore can be carried out.  
Among other requirements, it is essential that, prior to any decision to implement a presence control system through biometric systems, a risk management (art. 24.1 GDPR) is carried out and that appropriate technical and organizational measures are applied from the design and by default (art. 25 GDPR) in order to ensure and demonstrate that the processing is compliant with the GDPR. In particular, in the case of high risk, it must successfully pass a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) that includes and also surpasses the triple test of suitability, necessity, and strict proportionality established in art. 35.7.b and also provided for by the doctrine of the Constitutional Court.  
Furthermore, it must be taken into account that risk management for rights and freedoms does not exclude the prior obligation that there exists a circumstance that allows for the lifting of the prohibition on processing special categories, a condition that legitimizes the processing, compliance with the conditions of art. 22, adherence to the principle of data minimization, and compliance with the principles, rights, and other obligations established in the GDPR.  
A.  
HIGH RISK  
High-risk processing is any processing that is likely to, by its nature, scope, context, or purposes, particularly if it uses new technologies, entail a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons.  
One of the obligations of controllers is to assess the risk of their processing activities. The regulation already establishes the high risk of certain processing activities, being a non-exhaustive list. Specifically, in development of the provision contemplated in the fourth section of art. 35 of the GDPR, the obligation of the AEPD to publish the "Lists of types of data processing that require a data protection impact assessment" is established, following its approval by the European Data Protection Committee.
Page: 24 of 31  
such lists included a series of non-exhaustive criteria to determine the high risk of a processing activity.  
A presence registration processing that includes biometric processes will be considered high risk due to, at least, compliance with the criteria corresponding to numbers 4, 5, and 10 of the aforementioned list. This list is not exhaustive for the evaluation of high-risk processing. Other characteristics related to the scope, context, or specific nature of the implementation of the processing (e.g., use of multi-biometrics, vulnerability conditions of the data subjects, social situations, etc.) could further enhance the high-risk status for the data subjects. Therefore, according to the criteria established in the guide “Data Protection in Employment Relationships” by the AEPD, the processing of presence control through biometric techniques is also considered high risk.  
In the Guidelines 3/2019 on the processing of personal data through video devices, Version 2.0 Adopted on January 29, 2020, by the European Data Protection Board, in section 5.1 “General considerations regarding the processing of biometric data,” it emphasizes the importance of risk assessment, an analysis of necessity, proportionality, and the application of data minimization. These conditions, which are directly applicable to biometric operations through facial recognition in presence control processing, can be extended to the use of other biometric systems to implement such processing:  
73. The use of biometric data, and in particular, facial recognition entails high risks to the rights of the data subjects. It is essential that the use of such technologies occurs while duly respecting the principles of lawfulness, necessity, proportionality, and data minimization as established by the GDPR. Although the use of these technologies may be perceived as particularly effective, the data controllers must first assess the impact on fundamental rights and freedoms and consider less intrusive means to achieve their legitimate purpose of processing.  
Regarding biometric systems that are implemented with artificial intelligence techniques, consideration must be given to the classification of such systems as high risk according to Annex III of the proposed Artificial Intelligence Regulation and the compliance with the requirements that such systems must meet to be integrated into a presence registration processing.  
High-risk processing will require the controller to overcome, prior to the commencement of processing, the data protection impact assessment established in Article 35 of the GDPR.  
B.  
CONDUCTING AND OVERCOMING a DPIA  
Overcoming a DPIA requires demonstrating the suitability, necessity, and proportionality of the processing and managing the specific risks of the processing from the design stage, with the practical application of measures specifically aimed at minimizing such risks, in such a way as to ensure an acceptable risk threshold throughout the lifecycle of the processing, as established in Article 35 of the GDPR. This would imply that, in accordance with the principle of proactive responsibility (Article 5.2 of the GDPR), the data controller must be able not only to demonstrate the overcoming of the DPIA but also to provide all the documentation prepared in connection with the conduct of the DPIA and justifying the results obtained in the DPIA and the organizational, legal, and technical measures adopted in this regard. Documentation regarding the participation of the Data Protection Officer must also be included in case one has been appointed.
Page: 25 of 31  
among others. Furthermore, prior consultation with the supervisory authority will be mandatory in cases where the data controller has not taken measures to mitigate the risk as required by Article 36 of the GDPR.  
It should be noted that risk management for rights and freedoms does not resolve the absence of a circumstance lifting the prohibition on processing special categories, the absence of a condition of lawfulness, non-compliance with the conditions of Article 22, the principle of data minimization, and the application of the principles, rights, and other obligations established in the GDPR.  
The specifics on how to comply with Articles 35 and 36 of the GDPR have been developed by the AEPD in the following guidelines, which indicate how to execute and exceed a DPIA, how to document it, and how to carry out the prior consultation:  
•  
Risk management and impact assessment in personal data processing  
•  
Checklist to determine the formal adequacy of a DPIA and the submission of prior consultation  
•  
Instruction 1/2021 of the AEPD on guidelines regarding the consultative function of the Agency.  
Chapter V: Prior Consultations  
•  
Model report for Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) for Public Administrations  
•  
Model report for Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) for the Private Sector  
•  
Privacy by Design Guide  
•  
Data Protection by Default Guide  
•  
Compliance with the GDPR for processing that incorporates Artificial Intelligence  
•  
Requirements for Audits of Processing that include AI  
Regarding biometric operations in a presence control processing, these may employ different systems, some simultaneously, and, in turn, the same biometric technique can be implemented in different ways. Operations with biometric data in a specific processing will have a different degree of intrusion and impact on individuals' privacy, which will depend on the technique used, but also on the very definition of the processing, its nature, the scope or extent in which it will be developed, its context, particularly if the processing is configured as an automated decision.  
The Spanish Data Protection Agency, in the guide “Data Protection in Labor Relations,” in the section “Biometric Data” of chapter 4.6, recommends some measures for general presence registration processing through biometric systems to manage the risk, which can be extended to presence control in general:  
•  
The use of biometric technologies should be based on using devices under the exclusive control of users.  
•  
Preferably, centralized storage of biometric templates should not be employed.  
•  
Automated data deletion mechanisms should be implemented.  
•  
In the case of presence registration, the collective agreements should include the set of guarantees regarding these treatments as provided in Article 91 of the LOPDGDD.  
Another recommended measure is that the collection of data should be done consciously by the individual, and even with the requirement of a positive action to initiate the processing of biometric data, which, as indicated, would imply that the person
Page: 26 of 31  
affected party has prior and sufficient information to be aware of the risk involved in the processing of their biometric data, especially if they are in a situation of vulnerability.  
The measures outlined here are not exhaustive and do not encompass all those that can or should be implemented to manage the risks that may arise from a specific implementation of time tracking using biometric techniques. Furthermore, the validation of the biometric systems used in a processing operation must be ensured "by design," as required by Article 25.1 of the GDPR and with the recommendations established in the Privacy by Design Guidelines.  
C.  
OVERCOMING THE ANALYSIS OF SUITABILITY, NECESSITY, AND PROPORTIONALITY  
The GDPR requires in Article 35.7.b that, in a high-risk processing operation, prior to any decision on implementation, the triple test of suitability, necessity, and strict proportionality must be overcome, as also provided by the doctrine of the Constitutional Court.  
Regarding the analysis of suitability and necessity, we refer to what is stated in Section V.A of this document concerning both requirements. To establish the suitability of biometric processing, it must be evaluated that there is a logical and direct link between the processing and the objective pursued, and to determine the actual effectiveness of the processing, that is, to determine through objective evidence that it is capable of achieving a minimum level of effectiveness in addressing the stated need.  
As for overcoming the analysis of strict necessity, it must be demonstrated that it addresses a problem that must be real, present, or imminent, and critical for the functioning of the processing. In this regard, the European Court of Human Rights established that "necessary" "...was not synonymous with indispensable... and does not have the flexibility of expressions such as 'admissible,' 'ordinary,' 'useful,' 'reasonable,' or 'desirable'." Mere convenience or profitability is not sufficient. Furthermore, the scope, extent, and intensity of the interferences must be evaluated in terms of impact on fundamental rights, explaining with evidence why other possible alternatives are not sufficient to adequately meet this need. Even when evaluating the options, the possibility of employing a combination of measures, both automated and non-automated, organizational, legal, or technical, must be considered.  
In the case of time tracking, the interested party is obliged to participate in the time tracking processing, and there is no lifting of the prohibition based on Articles 9.2.b to 9.2.g. Therefore, if the additional processing of biometric data is intended to be based on consent, it must be free; for it to be free, the controller must have options equivalent to biometric processing. Thus, if those equivalent options exist, biometric processing is not necessary. Therefore, a time tracking processing implemented with biometric techniques, which lifts the prohibition of Article 9.1 of the GDPR based on the free consent of the interested party, does not pass a necessity analysis within the framework of a DPIA.  
Regarding the overcoming of the proportionality assessment in the strict sense, it must be established whether the processing of biometric data is a measured or balanced measure, deriving more benefits or advantages for the general interest than detriments to other conflicting goods or values. To do this, an evaluation of the level of intrusion into the rights and freedoms of the interested party must be conducted, estimating among others: the  

17 Handyside v. United Kingdom, case no. 5493/72 (ECtHR, December 7, 1976), paragraph 48.  
18 Article 29 Working Party, Opinion 3/2012 on the evolution of biometric technologies, WP 193, 27.04.2012, p. 8.
Page: 27 of 31  
nature of the interference: or how rights and freedoms are limited or put at risk;  
the scope/extent of the processing; the context in which the measure must be applied or the  
nature of the activity subject to the measure; whether "collateral intrusions" may occur,  
including interferences with the privacy of individuals other than those directly affected by  
the measure.  
In relation to all of the above, Opinion 3/2012 of the Article 29 Working Party, on  
the evolution of biometric technologies, states that the loss of privacy must be objectively  
weighed against the expected benefits. In particular, the fact that biometric processing  
results in a savings that is not significant is not a sufficient justification for carrying out  
the processing.  
“When analyzing the proportionality of a proposed biometric system…. A third  
aspect to consider is whether the resulting loss of privacy is proportional to the  
expected benefits. If the benefit is relatively minor, such as increased convenience or  
slight savings, then the loss of privacy is not appropriate.”  
D.  
IMPLEMENTATION  
There is a significant difference between the concept of biometric operation and its  
implementation. The concrete implementation involves the selection of sensors,  
communication protocols, development libraries, devices in which they are integrated  
(e.g., mobile phones or ATMs), storage (e.g., in the cloud), etc. Each of these will have  
different levels of quality, certification, auditing, security, involvement of third parties,  
etc.  
In the concrete implementation of a presence control treatment using biometric  
techniques, additional data protection risks may arise, as well as potential non-compliance,  
such as international data transfers without adequate safeguards. Even if these situations  
were initially resolved, they could arise as a consequence of a renewal or update of their  
components once the system has been put into production.  
E.  
CONTEXT OF THE PROCESSING  
In relation to the above, just as the biometric operation must be evaluated within the  
framework of the processing, the entire processing as a whole must be evaluated taking  
into account the social context and the collateral and unforeseen effects on rights and  
freedoms that, by incorporating biometric operations, have occurred or are occurring in  
the environment (diversion of purposes, social impacts, regulatory changes, religious or  
cultural changes, conflicts, etc.).  
F.  
MINIMUM DEFAULT MEASURES  
In the approach to a presence control system using biometric operations, in addition to  
a legal basis for processing under Article 6.1 GDPR, a circumstance that lifts the  
prohibition on processing special categories of data (Article 9.2 GDPR), and compliance  
with the conditions of Article 22 of the GDPR, it is necessary to establish from the design  
appropriate technical and organizational measures in order to ensure and demonstrate  
that the processing is in compliance with this Regulation. These measures, taking into  
account the nature, scope, context, and purposes of the processing, must be adequate to  
manage the risk (Articles 24 and 25.1 of the GDPR) and, regardless of the level of risk,  
must implement data protection by default (Article 25.2 GDPR).
Page: 28 of 31  
Among the minimum default measures, the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, in the guide “Data Protection in Labor Relations,” in the section “Biometric Data” of chapter 4.6, has already established the following set of guarantees, which can be extended to all presence control processing:  
•  
Inform data subjects about biometric processing. This implies, as stated in recital 39 of the GDPR, that “Natural persons should be aware of the risks” related to processing, in this case biometric.  
•  
Implement in the biometric system the possibility of revoking the identity link between the biometric template and the natural person.  
•  
Implement technical means to ensure the impossibility of using the templates for any other purpose.  
•  
Use encryption to protect the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the biometric template.  
•  
Use specific data formats or technologies that prevent the interconnection of biometric databases and the disclosure of unverified data.  
•  
Delete biometric data when it is no longer linked to the purpose that motivated its processing.  
•  
Implement data protection by design.  
•  
Conduct a Data Protection Impact Assessment prior to the commencement of processing.  
All these requirements are necessary but not sufficient conditions that must be executed, objectively evaluated, and documented, so that access control based on biometric processes complies with the proportionality requirements of the processing.  
G.  
PERSONAL DATA BREACHES  
The reality of technology is that new forms, techniques, or social engineering methods to exploit security vulnerabilities emerge every day. Within the framework of processing where the biometric operation is located, the controller must consider possible scenarios of personal data breaches, in order to implement guarantees as a result of their analysis to minimize not only the likelihood of occurrence but also to minimize the impact on the rights and freedoms of citizens in the event that they materialize.  
In risk management, measures and guarantees must be determined to minimize the impact that the use of biometric systems may cause on the rights and freedoms of the data subjects, assuming that it is inevitable that a personal data breach will occur.  
The scenarios that must be considered include, at a minimum, the leakage or loss of biometric patterns, malicious use of stored patterns, intrusion into the biometric analysis system and its results, interception of communication between systems, denial of service attacks, discontinuity of services of one's own or third parties, etc. All scenarios must be analyzed to assess the degree of impact they may have on rights and freedoms.  
Additionally, it is necessary to know what breaches are currently occurring that could determine the inadequacy of a specific biometric technique, of biometrics in general, or of the guarantees implemented. This implies conducting continuous evaluation.
Page: 29 of 31  
of the processing based on the events occurring in the social and technological context.  
IX. SUBCONTRACTING OF WORKERS  
In the case of subcontracting workers, if the contractor requires biometric systems for the establishment of a possible access control, such requirement must comply with the provisions set forth in this document.  
The contracted company, if it also has the role of data processor, also has the obligation, as established in Article 28.3 of the GDPR, to: “the processor shall immediately inform the controller if, in its opinion, an instruction infringes this Regulation or other Union or Member State data protection provisions.”  
Therefore, if the conditions for compliance with the provisions of the GDPR are not met, the contracted company is not obliged to carry out time registration or access control in the workplace by implementing biometric techniques.  
X.  
CONCLUSIONS  
Regarding the processing of attendance control through biometric identification or authentication techniques, the data controllers must take into account that:  
• The use of biometric identification and authentication technologies in attendance control constitutes a high-risk processing that includes special categories of data.  
• In the implementation of attendance control processing, the principles of data minimization and data protection by design and by default must be complied with, using equivalent, less intrusive alternative measures, and processing the least additional data.  
• There must be a circumstance to lift the prohibition on processing special categories of data and, additionally, a condition that legitimizes the processing.  
  o In the case of time registration and access control for work purposes, if the lifting of the prohibition is based on Article 9.2.b), the controller must have a legal norm that specifies the possibility of using biometric data for that purpose, which is not found in the current Spanish legal regulations.  
  o In the case of time registration or access control in the workplace, consent cannot lift the prohibition on processing, nor can it be a basis for determining legality, due to the generally existing situation of imbalance between the data subject and the data controller.  
  o For the case of access control outside the workplace, the execution of a contract is not a circumstance that lifts the prohibition according to Article 9.2 of the GDPR. Consent also cannot be, as it constitutes high-risk processing, which would have to surpass the necessity requirement established for such processing.  
• Any use of biometric data for purposes additional to attendance control must have its own circumstances for lifting the prohibition and conditions that legitimize it.  
• In attendance control processing, automated decisions without human intervention that have legal effects on the data subject cannot be made.
Page: 30 of 31  
the interested party or significantly affect them in a similar manner based on the biometric process, unless the circumstance of an essential public interest based on a legal standard is met, proportional to the objective pursued, which essentially respects the right to data protection and establishes adequate and specific measures to protect the interests and fundamental rights of the interested party.  
•  
In the event that the biometric system is implemented with artificial intelligence techniques, the prohibitions, limitations, and requirements established in the artificial intelligence regulations must be taken into account in order to include them in a processing activity.  
•  
In any case, it will be mandatory to successfully complete, prior to the start of processing, a Data Protection Impact Assessment in which, among other things, the accreditation of the successful completion of the triple analysis of suitability, necessity, and proportionality of the processing of biometric data is documented.  
•  
Once all the requirements for compliance with the general principles of the GDPR are met, in the practical implementation of the presence control processing with biometric identification or authentication techniques, organizational, technical, and legal guarantees must be implemented. In particular, at least the following measures must be present by default:  
o Inform workers, or individuals if not in a work environment, about the biometric processing and the elevated risks associated with it.  
o Implement in the biometric system the possibility of revoking the identity link between the biometric template and the individual.  
o Implement technical means to ensure that it is impossible to use the templates for any other purpose.  
o Use encryption to protect the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the biometric template.  
o Use data formats or specific technologies that prevent the interconnection of biometric databases and the disclosure of unverified data.  
o Delete biometric data when it is no longer linked to the purpose that motivated its processing.  
o Apply data minimization for the biometric data collected, with an objective assessment that there is no possibility of revealing additional special categories of data.  
o In the case of presence registration or access control in the workplace, the collective agreements must include the set of guarantees related to these processing activities as provided in Art. 91 of the LOPDGDD.  
•  
Among the recommended measures to minimize risk are:  
o The use of biometric technologies should be based on using devices under the exclusive control of users.  
o It is advisable that the data collection be carried out consciously by the individual, and even require a positive action to initiate the processing of biometric data.  
o Preferably, centralized storage of biometric templates should not be employed.  
 
Page: 31 of 31  
o Automated data deletion mechanisms should be implemented.  
•  
Finally, all actions and measures implemented will be reviewed and updated as necessary.