1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00115/2021

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following

FACTS

FIRST: A.A.A. (*hereinafter, the claimant) dated November 24, 2020
filed a claim with the Spanish Data Protection Agency. The
claim is directed against B.B.B. with NIF ***NIF.1 (hereinafter, the claimed one). The
reasons on which the claim is based are succinctly:

“presence of a camera facing outwards that may not meet
with current regulations affecting the right of the declarant without just cause” (folio
No. 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Doc. No. 1) that proves the
presence of a dome camera placed in an exterior window, without a sign
informative about it.

SECOND: On 12/18/20, the claim is TRANSFERRED to the claim-
so that he may claim in law what he deems appropriate, without any manifestation of
guna has been made for this purpose to date.

THIRD: On May 7, 2021, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimant, for the
alleged infringement of Article 5.1.c) of the RGPD, typified in Article 83.5 of the
GDPR.

FOURTH: On 06/03/21 a written statement of allegations is received from the respondent
stating the following:

“For some time now, approximately two years, they have been organizing
I frequently attend youth meetings right under the windows of my house,
with all the inconvenience that this entails, to listen to music with portable speakers.
useful, drink alcohol and smoke or consume other types of substances that I prefer not to enter
appreciate.

For these reasons I decided to install a camera to generate a di-
suasorio that I must admit that it does its function perfectly since for a long time
I haven't had that kind of problem in a while. I understand that both the in-
police interventions, such as the pandemic situation in which we find ourselves
They have made it possible to prevent the events from happening again.

Said camera is a dome-type camera, but it lacks connection, that is,
that does not obtain any image of an identified or identifiable natural person, so
since there is no obtaining of images, I consider that I am not violating the LOPD”.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Data Protection Agency
In this proceeding, the following are considered proven facts:

FACTS

First. The facts bring cause of the claim dated 11/24/20 being subject to
transfer to this Agency the following:

“presence of a camera facing outwards that may not meet
with current regulations affecting the right of the declarant without just cause” (folio
No. 1).

Along with the claim, provide documentary evidence (Doc. No. 1) that proves the
presence of a dome camera placed in an exterior window, without a sign
informative about it.

Second. It is identified as the main responsible Mr. B.B.B., who does not deny
be responsible for the installation of the device that is the subject of the complaint.

Third. It is accredited that the chamber object of the complaint does not process
of any personal data as it is a simulated device, without any connection.

Fourth. There is no evidence that any personal data processing has been carried out, given the
fictitious character of the device in question.

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each authority of
control, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD, the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate and to re-
solve this procedure.

II

In the present case, we proceed to examine the claim dated 11/24/20 by me-
gave from which the following is transferred as the main fact:

“presence of a camera facing outwards that may not meet
with current regulations affecting the right of the declarant without just cause” (folio
No. 1).

The facts are specified in the installation of a video-surveillance system,
that according to the statement of the claimant "manages the defendant himself", that he himself
has been installed without authorization from the Board of Owners and whose characteristics
cases have not been duly communicated.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

Article 5 section 1 GDPR “Principles related to treatment” provides that: “The
personal data will be:

c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes

for which they are processed ("data minimization");

It should be remembered that individuals are responsible for ensuring that the systems installed
felled comply with current legislation, proving that it complies with all
the requirements demanded by the regulations in force.

The installation of this type of device must have the mandatory informative sign.
tive, indicating the purposes and responsible for the treatment, where appropriate, of the data of each
personal character.

They will be installed at the different entrances to the video-monitored area and, in a visible place, one or
several posters that inform that you are accessing a video-monitored area.

In any case, the cameras must be oriented towards the particular space, avoiding
intimidate neighboring neighbors with this type of device, as well as control areas
transit of the same without just cause.

With this type of device it is not possible to obtain image(s) of public space either.
co, as this is the exclusive competence of the State Security Forces and Bodies
ted.

The recording system will be located in a guarded place or with restricted access. At
recorded images will be accessed only by authorized personnel, who must enter a code
say username and password. Once the system is installed, it is recommended
regular password change, avoiding easily deductible ones.

It should be remembered that even in the case of a "simulated" camera, the same
must be oriented towards private space, since it is considered that this type of
devices can affect the privacy of third parties, who are intimidated by the
herself in the belief of being the object of permanent recording.

On the part of individuals, it is not possible to install imaging devices
of public space, outside the cases allowed in the regulations.

The camera(s) cannot focus on public roads. If it is necessary to protect the entrance from
a house or that of the garage or establishment, the installation must pass the judgments of
proportionality, suitability and minimal intervention.

All these requirements must be met by the claimed party, who must prove the totality
their legal form before this body.

III

On 06/03/21, a written statement was received from the respondent party stating
dissuasive character of the installed device, but not carrying out the same treatment

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

storage of any personal data, having installed it in the face of noise problems in
the vicinity of your home.

Documentary evidence is provided (Doc. No. 1) that proves what is argued by the

itself, so that the device in question has a simulated character.

The principle of presumption of innocence prevents imputing an administrative offense
when proof of charge accrediting the criminals has not been obtained and verified.
facts that motivate the imputation or the intervention in them of the presumed infraction
thor. Applying the principle "in dubio pro reo" in case of doubt regarding a fact
concrete and determined, which obliges in any case to resolve said doubt in the most
favorable to the interested party.

The presumption of innocence must govern without exceptions in the legal system
sanctioning and must be respected in the imposition of any sanctions, since
the exercise of the ius puniendi in its diverse manifestations is conditioned to the
game of evidence and a contradictory procedure in which they can defend themselves
own positions. In this sense, the Constitutional Court in its Judgment
76/1990, of 04/26, considers that the right to the presumption of innocence entails:
"that the sanction is based on acts or means of proof of charge or incriminating
of the reproached conduct; that the burden of proof corresponds to the one who accuses, without
that no one is obliged to prove his own innocence; and that any insufficiency in
the result of the tests carried out, freely assessed by the
sanctioning, must be translated into an acquittal pronouncement.

The presumption of innocence governs without exceptions in the sanctioning system and has
to be respected in the imposition of any sanction, whether criminal or administrative
(TCo 13/1981), since the exercise of the sanctioning right in any of its
manifestations, is conditioned to the test game and to a procedure
contradictory environment in which their own positions can be defended.

Pursuant to this principle, no penalty may be imposed on the basis of the
guilt of the accused if there is no activity to prove the charge, which in the
appreciation of the authorities or bodies called to resolve, destroy this
presumption (TCo Auto 3-12-81).

However, in relation to this type of device that does not record any image,
na, remember the recent pronouncement of the TS (STS 3505/2019, of November 7),
which determines that "no one has the obligation to endure a permanent uncertainty"
about whether or not the camera is operative”, and the conduct described may be objecti-
of reproach in other branches of law.

The falsity of the installed camera is something that only the person who installs them knows, and
This is not an obstacle for people to feel observed by their placement, since
Although they do not record images, they also affect the “tranquility of the plaintiff and
his family".

Therefore, according to the criteria of this body, their installation must
be carried out with the required caution (eg, not affecting the private area of third parties, or if
blatantly located towards public roads), pondering the exceptionality of the

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

measure with the intended purpose, preserving at all times the rest of the
fundamental rights that may be affected by it.

IV

According to the above, after analyzing the statements of the parties and the whole
From the evidence provided, it can be concluded that the chamber object of the complaint is of a
simulated, not performing any “data processing” associated with an identified natural person.
each or identifiable, which is why it is appropriate to order the Archive of this proceeding
proceeding, without prejudice to a different assessment in the appropriate judicial instances.

The rest of the issues raised exceed the competence framework of this

Agency and must be settled in your case in the pertinent instances.

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and after assessing the graduation criteria
tion of the sanctions whose existence has been proven,

the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: ORDER the FILE of this procedure as there is no evidence
gives the commission of any administrative infraction.

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to B.B.B. and REPORT the result
of the actions to the claimant A.A.A.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
resents may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the Director
of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from the date of
the day following the notification of this resolution or directly contentious appeal
before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the National High Court,
in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of the additional provision
Final fourth of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the Contentious Jurisdiction-
administrative, within a period of two months from the day following the notification
tion of this act, as provided for in article 46.1 of the aforementioned Law.

Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-131120

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

