 
 
 
 
 

 

Our ref.: 11.17.001.008.222 
 

Decision 

30 December 2022 

 

Failure to Fully Comply to a Subject Access Request by Tarlun Limited 
1. A complaint was lodged with the French SA (CNIL - Commission nationale 
de l'informatique et des libertés) against Tarlun Limited (the controller), whose 
main establishment is in Cyprus. Moreover, the complaint was subsequently 
transmitted to Office of the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection (Cyprus 
SA)  on  25/9/2020,  in  line  with  Article  56  of  the  General  Data  Protection 
Regulation. 
 
2. On the basis of the above, the Commissioner for Personal Data Protection 
(the Commissioner) is acting as the lead authority in this matter. In the course 
of the investigation, other EU countries were identified as being concerned by 
this case. 
 
Description of the case 
 
3.1. The complaint involves the controller’s (Tarlun Limited) failure to comply 
with  the  complainant’s  access  request  (SAR)  (article  15  of  the  GDPR) 
submitted to the controller, which operates the website www.funnycuistot.com. 
 
3.2.  In  her  complaint,  the  complainant  stated  that  she  was  charged  for 
subscription  services  to  the  benefit  of  the  website  www.funnycuistot.com, 
whereas she indicated that she did not remember having subscribed to this site. 
Following  this,  she  exercised  her  right  of  access  via  email  from  XXX  to 
support@funnycuistot.com on 31 August 2020 to identify what data was being 
held on her and where the data was collected from. Moreover, she accepted a 
partial refund, but she had not received an answer as regards the Subject 
Access Request. After not receiving the requested information, the DS lodged 
a complaint regarding the controller’s failure to fulfill the request. 
 Investigation by Cyprus SA 
 
4.  In  the  framework  of  the  investigation  by  the  Cyprus  SA,  the  following 
information was collected: 
The 
with 
complainant 
i. 
support@funnycuistot.com, exercising  her  right  of  access as  a  data 
subject under Article 15 of the GDPR on 31/08/2019 as well as an inquiry 
in relation to the subscription to the Website. 

lodged 

email 

SAR 

via 

a 

ii. 

iii. 

viii. 

The controller wrongfully believed that the SAR was a request for a 
reimbursement for the subscription paid to the Website and that they 
already fulfilled it by refunding the complainant in September 2019. 
Following the reimbursement of the complainant, the controller’s Support 
Department was unable to recover and/or locate the complainant's SAR 
to reply and provide her with her personal data on time. 
The  controller  became  aware  of  the  SAR  on  15/12/2020,  upon 
iv. 
notification of the complaint by the Cyprus SA. 
v.  As a result of reimbursement provided to the complainant, the controller 
continued to have a false impression that the SAR was satisfied until 
January 2022, when legal advisors were appointed, who clarified to the 
controller that the SAR was not satisfied. 
vi.  Upon  realising  this,  the  controller  on  24  March  2022  contacted  the 
complainant and satisfied her SAR by providing her all the information 
she requested and further apologised for causing any inconvenience.  
vii.  Moreover,  the  complainant  confirmed  the  receipt  of  the  above 
information  and  also  stated:  “This  indicates  a  fraudulent  use  of  my 
information and credit card number from an IP address in the Rhône-
Alpes region (whereas I am in the Grand Est region) but this is no longer 
within the scope of the right of access request. So, I have obtained 
satisfaction concerning my complaint and I thank you for it.” 
Furthermore,  the  controller  took  all  necessary  actions  to  avoid  any 
recurrence of the above incident. Specifically, the controller commenced 
preparation  of  related  policies  and  the  appropriate  technical  and 
organizational measures for the compliance with the GDPR and also 
arranged for the conduction of further training/seminars of its personnel 
on the provisions of the GDPR and data protection in general. 

 
 
Preliminary Decision 
 
5. On 10 November 2022, the Commissioner issued a Preliminary Decision 
regarding the controller’s failure to comply with the complainant’s SAR. In the 
said Preliminary Decision the Commissioner concluded that Tarlun Limited had 
not complied with the complainant's request in a timely manner, thus there is a 
violation of Article 12(3) GDPR since the controller did not respond to her 
SAR within the one-month time limit. 
 
6. The controller’s legal representative responded on 15 December 2022, to the 
Preliminary Decision and stated, inter alia, that: 
 
i. 

The controller accepts the Commissioner’s conclusion that there is a 
violation of Article 12(3) GDPR since the Company did not reply to the 
request made within the one-month time limit; 
The  controller  notes  that  customer  service  employees  wrongfully 
believed that the request made was a request for a reimbursement for 
the subscription paid to the website of the Company. 
Following the incident, the controller emphasizes that GDPR training has 
been conducted for all its employees including all support managers. 

ii. 

iii. 

 

iii. 
iv. 
v. 

7. In addition to the above, the controller’s legal representative included the 
following mitigating factors to be taken into account by the Commissioner: 
 
i. 
There are no previous infringements committed by the controller, 
the  controller  took every  action  and  provided  necessary  information 
ii. 
timely  in  order  to  cooperate  with  the  Commissioner  to  remedy  the 
incident as well as to help with the investigation and to mitigate the 
possible adverse effects of the incident, 
the controller satisfied the access request as soon as the controller 
realized the incorrect handling of data subject request, 
the incident in question involved only one data subject and the damage 
suffered by the data subject is minimal and 
no special categories of data were affected in this incident and to the 
extent the Company is concerned, any data received by the Company 
was provided by the complainant and the Company could not have 
known  that  the  data  was  provided  fraudulently  (as  claimed  by  the 
complainant). 

 
 
Legal framework 
 
8. Article 12: Transparent information, communication and modalities for the 
exercise of the rights of the data subject. 
 Pursuant to article 12(3) of the GDPR The controller shall provide information 
on action taken on a request under Articles 15 to 22 to the data subject without 
undue delay and in any event within one month of receipt of the request. That 
period may be extended by two further months where necessary, taking into 
account the complexity and number of the requests. The controller shall inform 
the data subject of any such extension within one month of receipt of the 
request, together with the reasons for the delay. Where the data subject makes 
the request by electronic form means, the information shall be provided by 
electronic  means  where  possible,  unless  otherwise  requested  by  the  data 
subject. 
 
9. Article 15: Right of access by the data subject 
 
1. The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation 
as to whether or not personal data concerning him or her are being processed, 
and, where that is the case, access to the personal data and the following 
information: 
 
(a) the purposes of the processing; 
(b) the categories of personal data concerned; 
(c) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have 
been  or  will  be  disclosed,  in  particular  recipients  in  third  countries  or 
international organisations; 
(d) where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data will be 

stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; 
(e) the  existence of the right to request from the controller rectification or 
erasure  of  personal  data  or  restriction  of  processing  of  personal  data 
concerning the data subject or to object to such processing; 
(f) the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority; 
(g)  where  the  personal  data  are  not  collected  from  the  data  subject,  any 
available information as to their source; 
(h) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling, referred to 
in Article 22(1) and (4) and, at least in those cases, meaningful information 
about  the  logic  involved,  as  well  as  the  significance  and  the  envisaged 
consequences of such processing for the data subject. 
 
2.   Where personal data are transferred to a third country or to an international 
organisation,  the  data  subject  shall  have  the  right  to  be  informed  of  the 
appropriate safeguards pursuant to Article 46 relating to the transfer. 
3.      The  controller  shall  provide  a  copy  of  the  personal  data  undergoing 
processing. For any further copies requested by the data subject, the controller 
may charge a reasonable fee based on administrative costs. Where the data 
subject  makes  the  request  by  electronic  means,  and  unless  otherwise 
requested by the data subject, the information shall be provided in a commonly 
used electronic form. 
10. Article 58. Corrective Powers 
 
2.   Each supervisory authority shall have all of the following corrective powers: 
… 
(b)  to  issue  reprimands  to  a  controller  or  a  processor  where  processing 
operations have infringed provisions of this Regulation; … 
 
Preliminary Views of the Commissioner 
 
11.  After  reviewing  the  information  provided  by  the  controller’s  legal 
representative, in their response to my Preliminary Decision, specifically the 
fact that the controller appreciates that there was a lack of appropriate attention 
to the complainant’s request, I consider that the controller understands that the 
request could have been satisfied from the first instance if the support staff was 
properly trained in tackling GDPR requests in a timely manner.  
12. Despite this, considering that the GDPR had been enforced for more than 
a year at the time of the complainant’s first SAR, the controller should have had 
the appropriate measures in place for at least satisfying data subject rights set 
out in Articles 15 to 22 of the GDPR. Moreover, the complainant should have 

received a valid response without delay to its first SAR, where he clearly 
requested to be informed of all his personal data which was processed by the 
controller at the time. 
 
Decision 
13. Having regard to all the above information, and based on the powers vested 
in me by Articles 58 and 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and article 24(b) 
of National Law 125(I)/2018, I conclude that there is an infringement by Tarlun 
Limited of Article 12(3) of the GDPR, since the controller has not complied with 
the complainant's request in a timely manner. 
14. Moreover, following an infringement of Article 12(3) GDPR, as explained 
above, under the provisions of Article 83 of the GDPR, I take into account the 
following mitigating (1-3) and aggravating (4-6) factors: 
 
1. That there is no previous violation by the controller of the GDPR 2016/679. 
2. The controller satisfied the access request as soon as the mistake was 
realized 
3. The measures taken after the incident to ensure that all staff is 
appropriately trained in handling GDPR matters. 
4. The controller only became aware of the SAR after being notified of the 
complaint by my Office. 
5. The complainant’s request was not satisfied within the legal timeframe. 
6. The lack of appropriate procedures and measures for handling data subject 
rights at the time of the request. 
 
 
15. In view of the above and on the basis of the powers conferred on me by the 
provisions of subparagraph (b) of paragraph (2) of Article 58 of the GDPR, I 
have  decided  to  issue  a  reprimand  to  Tarlun  Limited  for  the  infringement 
mentioned in paragraph 13 above. In the event of a recurrence of a similar 
infringement  within  12  months  from  today,  this  Decision  may  be  counted 
against the company. 
  
  Irene Loizidou Nicolaidou 
Commissioner 
For Personal Data Protection 

