








Together for a better Internet
New media-pedagogical information offer of the HmbBfDI and Safer Internet Day 2020
04.02.2020 • HmbBfDI



Digital media form an important part of the living environment of today's children and young people. We are experiencing a digitization of our society, in which social networks, smart devices and artificial intelligence are becoming more and more important to society. The danger of identity theft, cyberbullying and interference in political and social opinion-forming through social media have long since become reality. The education and promotion of media and data protection skills are therefore one of the most important tasks of future society: Only through education and targeted educational measures can active and informed participation in society and democracy succeed.
With Article 57 Paragraph 1 Letter b of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the supervisory authorities were given the task of informing the public about data protection issues - with a special focus on children - as a new statutory task. The media-pedagogical goal of the Hamburg Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information (HmbBfDI) is to educate all sections of the population on the subject of data protection in a comprehensive, target-group-oriented and practical manner. The primary aim is to raise awareness and provide information on how to handle personal data in a data protection-conscious manner, but also to take a reflective and critical look at social transformation processes. For this purpose, the HmbBfDI has compiled and processed information material and things worth knowing on the subject of data protection and data security - it can now be accessed via our media education portal. In addition, from now on schools and educational institutions can request workshops on the subject of data protection and data protection competence from the HmbBfDI (dates subject to availability).
The annual Safer Internet Day will take place on February 11, 2020 under the motto "Together for a better Internet". On the weekend before, i.e. on February 8, 2020, there will be a day of action for Safer Internet Day. From 12.00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. the HmbBfDI offers u.A. In addition to the Hamburg/Schleswig-Holstein media authority (MA HSH), the Hamburg police, the Blinde Kuh e.V. association and the Hamburg book halls, we offer exciting information and great campaigns.
Where: Hamburg Library, Hühnerposten 1, 20097 Hamburg
When: February 08, 2020, 12 p.m. - 5 p.m
Further information can be found on the website of the Hamburg book halls
and click safe.
Johannes Caspar, the Hamburg representative for data protection and freedom of information: “Media education and data protection competence are current and future key issues. In today's society, it is essential to introduce children and young people to the new media at an early stage. This is the only way to promote digital participation and democracy building. Promoting data protection skills is therefore also one of the core tasks of data protection authorities, because young people's ability to protect themselves against possible risks in the digital world must be strengthened. Participation in Safer Internet Day 2020 is therefore right and important. However, it is only a first step in getting back into this topic, which could not be adequately represented due to years of staff shortages. Our new website, which provides relevant information, useful tips and contact options, makes it clear that media education for children and young people is of central importance. Data protection is not just law enforcement and the enactment of fines and administrative orders.”


press contact
rot13("Znegva Fpurzz", "pznxeufcvwjghmds");mmehcS nitraM

Phone:
+49 40 428 54-4044
Email: rot13("cerffr@qngrafpuhgm.unzohet.qr", "atyuqnbsdrpmlvjh");ed.grubmah.ztuhcsnetad@esserp






