
DetailHomeNewsDetail


                                    08/05/2021
                                Report of the state government on the evaluation of the state transparency law published - Kugelmann: "Existing deficits at the level of legal users must be eliminated." The evaluation of the state transparency law of Rhineland-Palatinate has now been completed. According to Section 23 of the State Transparency Act, which came into force on January 1, 2016, the state government is reviewing the effects of this law with scientific support and reporting to the state parliament four years after it came into force. This evaluation report was sent to the President of the State Parliament with a letter from the Head of the State Chancellery dated July 19, 2021. The State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information issued a statement in a letter dated May 7, 2021, as provided for in Section 23 Sentence 2 LTranspG submitted to the evaluation report. Based on the results of the evaluation and its previous mediation and advisory work on the State Transparency Act, it considers the regulations that have been made to be largely sufficient and that a change in the law is therefore currently not necessary. Instead, he comes to the conclusion that the majority of the existing deficits in the area of transparency and openness do not exist at the legal level, but in the context of the application of the legal requirements. The state representative, Prof. Kugelmann, makes it clear: "There is still a lot to be done to further increase the freedom of information and the transparency of the administration in Rhineland-Palatinate. The law itself provides a good basis for this. At the level of those applying the law, however, constant efforts must be made to ensure that transparency and openness are established as guidelines for the administration. I will make my contribution with friendly perseverance.” The German Research Institute for Public Administration was commissioned with the evaluation in December 2019. The objects of investigation can be divided into 3 main areas: First, the review of law enforcement and the implementation of the transparency platform, second, the effects on the administration in organizational, personnel, and financial terms, and third, the achievement of the goals of the law. The state representative was involved in the evaluation through two interviews. Based on the evaluation carried out, the research institute identified potential for optimization, which resulted in 9 recommendations for action. The complete evaluation report and the statement can be found at https://dokumente.landtag.rlp.de/landtag/drucksachen/678-18.pdf Further information on the State Transparency Act of Rhineland-Palatinate can be found at https://s.rlp.de/ltranspg
                                return
                            



