1/5

 Procedure No.: PS/00251/2020

RESOLUTION OF PUNISHMENT PROCEDURE

Of the procedure instructed by the Spanish Agency for Data Protection and based on
to the following:

BACKGROUND

FIRST: FESMC UGT MADRID (hereinafter, the claimant) on the 13th of
February 2020 filed a claim with the Spanish Agency for the Protection of
Data. The claim is directed against CONSEGURIDAD S.L. with NIF B85937902 (in
later, the claimed one).

The reasons on which the claim is based are that the respondent has a system
of CCTV, where it records the images of all the people who enter and work in
the installations.

However, the respondent party has not appointed a Delegate of
Data Protection (hereinafter DPD) and therefore no rights can be exercised.

Together with the claim, it provides recordings from the video surveillance cameras.

SECOND: In accordance with article 65.4 of the LOPGDD, which has provided for a
mechanism prior to the admission to processing of the claims that are formulated before
the AEPD, consisting of transferring them to the Data Protection Delegates
designated by those responsible or in charge of the treatment, for the purposes foreseen
in article 37 of the aforementioned rule, or to these when they were not designated, it was given
transfer of the claim to the claimed entity so that it proceeded to its analysis and
respond to the complaining party and to this Agency within a month.

An attempt has been made to transfer the claim to the claimed party,
for analysis and communication to the claimant of the decision adopted in this regard, in
twice, the first through electronic notification that expired without being
collected by the respondent on June 16, 2020, the second notification was made by
certified mail and has also been returned by the Postal Service with the
indication “absent distribution” on July 7, 2020.

THIRD: On August 10, 2020, in accordance with article 65 of the
LOPDGDD, the Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency agreed to admit
processing the claim filed by the claimant against the claimed.

FOURTH: On September 21, 2020, the Director of the Spanish Agency for
Data Protection agreed to initiate a sanctioning procedure against the claimed party,
for the alleged infringement of Article 37.1 b) of the RGPD, in relation to article
34.1 ñ) of the LOPDGDD, typified in accordance with article 83.4 of the RGPD.

FIFTH: Formal notification of the initiation agreement, the claimed party at the time of
this resolution has not submitted a brief of arguments, so it is
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

2/5

application of what is stated in article 64 of Law 39/2015, of October 1, of the
Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, which in its
section f) establishes that in the event of not making allegations within the stipulated period
on the content of the initiation agreement. This may be considered a proposal for
resolution when it contains a precise statement about the responsibility
imputed, for which a Resolution is issued.

In view of everything that has been done, by the Spanish Protection Agency
of Data in this procedure the following are considered proven facts,

FACTS

FIRST: The defendant, a private security company, has not appointed a
Data Protection Delegate.

SECOND: The respondent has not responded to this Agency.
 

FOUNDATIONS OF LAW

Yo

By virtue of the powers that article 58.2 of the RGPD recognizes to each
control authority, and according to the provisions of articles 47 and 48 of the LOPDGDD,
The Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection is competent to initiate
and to solve this procedure.

II

Article 37 of the GDPR establishes the following:

"1. The person in charge and the person in charge of the treatment will designate a delegate of

data protection provided that:

b) the principal activities of the controller or processor consist of
processing operations that, due to their nature, scope and/or purposes,
require regular and systematic observation of data subjects on a large scale,”

In this sense, the LOPDGDD determines in its article 34.1) and 3):

“Appointment of a data protection delegate”

"1. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment must designate a delegate of
data protection in the cases provided for in article 37.1 of the Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 and, in any case, in the case of the following entities:

ñ) Private security companies.
3. Those responsible and in charge of the treatment will communicate within the period of
ten days to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection or, where appropriate, to the
regional data protection authorities, designations, appointments and
cessation of the data protection delegates both in the cases in which
www.aepd.es
C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid
sedeagpd.gob.es

3/5

are obliged to their designation as in the case in which it is voluntary.”

III

In accordance with the available evidence, it is considered that the
denounced fact of the lack of designation of DPD by a security company
private, when carrying out the claimed processing of personal data on a large scale, and
being a private security company we are faced with the violation of the
article 37.1b) of the RGPD in relation to article 34.1 ñ) of the LOPDGDD.

On the other hand, note that the installation of video surveillance cameras can
carried out in order to guarantee the safety of goods and people, being
legitimized for them, if there is an information poster, as provided in article 22
section 4 LOPDGDD.

IV

Article 83.7 of the RGPD establishes that: "Without prejudice to the corrective powers of
supervisory authorities pursuant to Article 58(2), each Member State may
establish rules on whether and to what extent administrative fines can be imposed on
public authorities and bodies established in that Member State.

Article 58.2 of the RGPD provides the following: "Each supervisory authority

shall have all of the following corrective powers listed below:

b) sanction any person responsible or in charge of the treatment with
warning when the processing operations have violated the provisions of
this Regulation;

d) order the person in charge or in charge of the treatment that the operations of
treatment comply with the provisions of this Regulation, where appropriate,
in a certain way and within a specified period;

i) impose an administrative fine under article 83, in addition to or in
instead of the measures mentioned in this paragraph, depending on the circumstances
of each particular case.

v

Article 73 of the LOPDDG indicates: "Infringements considered serious

“Based on the provisions of article 83.4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
considered serious and will prescribe after two years the infractions that suppose a
substantial violation of the articles mentioned therein and, in particular, the following:”

v) Failure to comply with the obligation to appoint a data protection delegate
when their appointment is required in accordance with article 37 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and article 34 of this organic law.”

The art. 83.4 of the RGPD establishes that "violations of the provisions
following will be sanctioned, in accordance with section 2, with administrative fines

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

4/5

EUR 10,000,000 maximum or, in the case of a company, an amount
equivalent to a maximum of 2% of the total global annual turnover of the
previous financial year, opting for the highest amount:

a) the obligations of the person in charge and the person in charge in accordance with articles 8, 11,
25 to 39, 42 and 43”

Likewise, it is considered appropriate to graduate the sanction to be imposed in accordance with

with the following criteria established in article 83.2 of the RGPD:

As aggravating the following:

 In the present case, the number of interested parties is an aggravating circumstance.
affected, since the claimed person performs a processing of personal data to
large scale due to the number of clients it has (article 83.2 a).

 Basic personal identifiers are affected (article 83.2 g)

Therefore, in accordance with the applicable legislation and having assessed the criteria for
graduation of the sanctions whose existence has been proven, the Director of the
Spanish Data Protection Agency RESOLVES:

FIRST: IMPOSE CONSEGURIDAD S.L., with NIF B85937902, for a
infringement of Article 37.1 b) of the RGPD, in relation to article 34.1 ñ) of the
LOPDGDD, typified in accordance with article 83.4 of the RGPD, a fine of €50,000
(fifty thousand euros).

SECOND: NOTIFY this resolution to CONSEGURIDAD S.L.

THIRD: Warn the sanctioned party that he must make the imposed sanction effective once
Once this resolution is enforceable, in accordance with the provisions of the
art. 98.1.b) of Law 39/2015, of October 1, on Administrative Procedure
Common Public Administrations (hereinafter LPACAP), within the payment term
voluntary established in art. 68 of the General Collection Regulations, approved
by Royal Decree 939/2005, of July 29, in relation to art. 62 of Law 58/2003,
of December 17, through its entry, indicating the NIF of the sanctioned and the number
of procedure that appears in the heading of this document, in the account
restricted number ES00 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000, opened on behalf of the Agency
Spanish Department of Data Protection in the banking entity CAIXABANK, S.A.. In case
Otherwise, it will be collected in the executive period.

Received the notification and once executed, if the date of execution is
between the 1st and 15th of each month, both inclusive, the term to make the payment
voluntary will be until the 20th day of the following month or immediately after, and if
between the 16th and last day of each month, both inclusive, the payment term
It will be until the 5th of the second following month or immediately after.

In accordance with the provisions of article 50 of the LOPDGDD, this
Resolution will be made public once it has been notified to the interested parties.

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

5/5

Against this resolution, which puts an end to the administrative procedure in accordance with art. 48.6 of the
LOPDGDD, and in accordance with the provisions of article 123 of the LPACAP, the
Interested parties may optionally file an appeal for reconsideration before the
Director of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection within a month from
counting from the day following the notification of this resolution or directly
contentious-administrative appeal before the Contentious-Administrative Chamber of the
National Court, in accordance with the provisions of article 25 and section 5 of
the fourth additional provision of Law 29/1998, of July 13, regulating the
Contentious-administrative jurisdiction, within a period of two months from the
day following the notification of this act, as provided in article 46.1 of the
aforementioned Law.

Finally, it is pointed out that in accordance with the provisions of art. 90.3 a) of the LPACAP,
may provisionally suspend the firm resolution in administrative proceedings if the
The interested party expresses his intention to file a contentious-administrative appeal.
If this is the case, the interested party must formally communicate this fact by
writing addressed to the Spanish Agency for Data Protection, presenting it through
Electronic Register of the Agency [https://sedeagpd.gob.es/sede-electronica-
web/], or through any of the other registers provided for in art. 16.4 of the
aforementioned Law 39/2015, of October 1. You must also transfer to the Agency the
documentation proving the effective filing of the contentious appeal-
administrative. If the Agency was not aware of the filing of the appeal
contentious-administrative within a period of two months from the day following the
notification of this resolution would end the precautionary suspension.
Sea Spain Marti
Director of the Spanish Data Protection Agency

938-300320

C/ Jorge Juan, 6
28001 – Madrid

www.aepd.es
sedeagpd.gob.es

