 

 

Mr Emmanuel Moulin, 
Mr Philippe Léglise-Costa 
Council of the European Union 
 
Sent by e-mail only 
 

 

 

Dear Sir, 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Brussels, 12 May 2022 
Ref: OUT2022-0030 

This letter follows up on the adoption by the European Commission (“the EC”), of a legislative package 
of four legislative proposals (the “AML legislative proposals”) on 20 July 2021, aiming at strengthening 
the EU’s actions on anti-money laundering and countering the financing of terrorism (“AML/CFT”). 

The legislative package includes a Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the 
Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or 
terrorist financing (“the Proposal for a Regulation applying to the private sector”)1 and a Proposal for 
a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Authority for 
Countering Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (“the Proposal for a Regulation establishing  
AMLA”).2 

The EDPB draws the attention of the European Institutions to the important data protection issues 
raised  by  the  implementation  of  the  AML/CFT  obligations,  as  provided  by  the  AML  legislative 
proposals.  Obliged  entities  are  required  to  process  personal  data  which  allow  to  draw  intimate 
inferences about individuals and which can notably lead to the exclusion of legal and natural persons 
from a right and/or a service (for instance, a banking service). It is therefore crucial that AML legislative 
proposals are in line with the General Data Protection Regulation (“the GDPR”). 

                                                           
1 COM(2021) 420 final. 
2 COM (2021) 421 final. 
The AML legislative package also includes a Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the 
mechanisms for the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing 
and repealing, and a Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on information accompanying 
transfers of funds and certain crypto-assets. 
 

 

 

The EDPB also underlines that ensuring a better consistency between the AML legislative proposals 
and GDPR principles, such as the accuracy principle or the data minimisation principle, would improve 
the efficiency of the implementation of the AML/CFT legal framework.  

To better achieve this consistency, the EDPB calls on the EU institutions to involve the EDPB in the 
discussions on the AML legislative proposals and suggests some crucial modifications having regard in 
particular  to  the  Proposal  for  a  Regulation  applying  to  the  private  sector  and  the  Proposal  for  a 
Regulation establishing AMLA. 

This letter partly reiterates concerns expressed by the EDPB in its Statement published in December 
20203, in a letter addressed to the EC in May 20214, as well as in the EDPS Opinion.5  Indeed, the AML 
legislative proposals only partially implement the recommendations issued by the EDPB in 2020 and 
2021.  For  instance,  the  EDPB  notes  that  the  EC  has  included,  as  requested  by  the  EDPB,  specific 
provisions on the processing of special categories of data6, as well as on the processing of personal 
data relating to criminal convictions and offences7 in the AML legislative proposals. However, the EDPB 
considers that the AML legislative proposals should provide for additional safeguards in relation to the 
processing of these personal data to ensure in particular compatibility with Articles 9 and 10 GDPR. 
Moreover, the AML legislative proposals do not provide specific rules in relation to the sources to be 
used by obliged entities for gathering information, and in relation to information provided by data 
service providers of so-called “watchlists”. 

Without further amendments, the EDPB is of the view that the AML legislative proposals would have 
a  disproportionate  negative  impact  to  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  individuals  and  would  lead  to 
significant legal uncertainty. The EDPB would therefore like to highlight the following safeguards to be 
included in the AML legislative proposals. 

1.  Consultation of the EDPB in the context of the drafting and adoption of regulatory technical 

standards, guidelines and recommendations. 

The  EDPB  notes  that  regulatory  technical  standards  (RTS),  guidelines  and  recommendations  to  be 
developed and adopted by AMLA or the EC would, in practice, provide the core of the standardized 
AML/CFT rules.8  

Indeed, pursuant to the AML legislative proposals, the RTS shall specify, notably, the information to 
be  collected  for  the  purpose  of  performing  standard,  simplified  and  enhanced  customer  due 
diligence9. Moreover, AMLA shall issue guidelines on ongoing monitoring of a business relationship 
and on the monitoring of the transactions carried out in the context of such relationship10. In addition, 

                                                           
3 EDPB Statement on the protection of personal data processed in relation with the prevention of money laundering and 
terrorist financing, 15 December 2020. 
4 EDPB letter to the European Commission on the protection of personal data in the AML-CFT legislative proposals, 19 May 
2021. 
5 EDPS  Opinion  12/2021  on  the  anti-money  laundering  and  countering  the  financing  of  terrorism  (AML/CFT)  package  of 
legislative proposals. 
6 Special categories of data are defined in Article 9 GDPR. 
7 Processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences is regulated under Article 10 GDPR. 
8 The Proposal for a regulation establishing AMLA, under Article 38, lays down that AMLA develops draft regulatory technical 
standards (RTS) and submits them to the EC for adoption. The RTS shall be adopted by the EC by means of delegated acts 
pursuant to Article 290 TFEU. 
9 Article 22 of the Proposal for a Regulation applying to the private sector 
10 Article 21(4) of the Proposal for a Regulation applying to the private sector 

 

 

the EC shall issue recommendations to Member States on specific rules and criteria to identify the 
beneficial owners of legal entities other than corporate entities.11  

First of all, the EDPB considers that the categories of personal data to be processed by obliged entities 
and additional rules that might impact their processing should not be specified in the RTS, guidelines, 
and recommendations, but rather be identified directly in the AML legislative proposals.  

Furthermore, in accordance with its duty to ensure a consistent application of the GDPR12, the EDPB 
considers  that  its  involvement  in  the  development  of  RTS,  guidelines  and  recommendations  is 
essential  to  reach  a  common  understanding  between  the  concerned  national  data  protection 
authorities, the AMLA and the EC, to clarify the interplay of the AML CFT legal framework with the 
GDPR, and thus to provide legal certainty to obliged entities.  

Against  this  background,  the  EDPB  notes  that,  while  Recital  58  of  the  Proposal  for  a  Regulation 
establishing AMLA provides that the AMLA shall “closely cooperate” with the EDPB, when ‘’developing 
any instruments’’ or ‘’taking any decisions’’ having a ‘’significant impact on the protection of personal 
data’’, the legal text of the Proposal only includes this obligation to cooperate in relation to guidelines 
and recommendations, without referring to RTS13. The Proposal for a Regulation establishing AMLA 
also provides, under Article 84(1), that AMLA “may’’ invite “national data protection authorities’’ as 
“observers’’ when drafting such guidelines and recommendations.14 

The EDPB considers that AMLA should closely cooperate with the EDPB when drafting guidelines or 
recommendations, as well as RTS. This cooperation should take place in all cases where guidelines, 
recommendations  and  RTS  have  ‘’a  significant  impact  on  the  protection  of  personal  data”.  In  this 
regard, the EDPB notes that AMLA, according to Article 38 of the Proposal for Regulation establishing 
AMLA, shall submit the RTS to the EC for adoption by means of delegated acts pursuant to Article 290 
TFEU. According to Article 42(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, the EC may consult the EDPB when 
preparing acts referred to in Article 42(1) (including delegated acts or implementing acts) of particular 
importance for the  protection of individuals’ rights  and freedoms with regard to the  processing of 
personal data.  

Given the potentially serious impact that RTS may have on the protection of personal data, the EDPB 
considers  that  it  should  be  formally  consulted  by  the  EC  before  their  adoption  when  they  have 
significant impact for the protection of individuals’ rights and freedoms with regard to the processing 
of personal data. Furthermore, considering the impact on data protection of AMLA’s guidelines and 
recommendations, the  EDPB calls  on the legislators to assess the possibility for requiring AMLA to 
formally consult the EDPB before the adoption of these instruments, if they have a significant impact 
on the protection of personal data. 

This is without prejudice to the fact that the EDPB considers that,  in particular, the conditions and 
limits for the processing of special categories of personal data and of personal data relating to criminal 

                                                           
11 Article 42(4) of the Proposal for a for a Regulation applying to the private sector. 
12 Article 70 GDPR 
13 Article 77(2) of the Proposal for a Regulation establishing AMLA. 
14 Article 84(1) of the Proposal for a Regulation establishing AMLA. 
 
 

 

 

convictions and offences should be considered as essential elements to be defined in the legislative 
proposals of the AML legislative package, rather than under RTS.15 

2.  The need to better specify the conditions and limits of the processing of special categories of 

data and of personal data relating to criminal convictions. 
 
2.1.  Regarding the processing of special categories of personal data 

Article 55(1) of the Proposal for a Regulation applying to the private sector lays down that obliged 
entities may process special categories of personal data referred to in Article 9(1) GDPR, to the extent 
that  this  processing  is  “strictly  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  preventing  money  laundering  and 
terrorist financing”.  

Article 55 does not specify the meaning of “strictly necessary”. Furthermore, the types of personal 
data falling under the special category of personal data that may be processed are not defined.  

The EDPB points out that Article 55 might not be in line with data minimisation principle under Article 
5(1)(c)  GDPR  and  poses  serious  data  protection  concerns.16  Indeed,  the  implementation  of  the 
provisions in Article 55 might lead obliged entities to process data falling under the scope of Article 
9(1) GDPR which are not necessarily relevant for the purpose pursued, such as personal data revealing 
trade union membership, data concerning health, processing of genetic data, biometric data for the 
purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, and data concerning a natural person’s sex life or 
sexual orientation.  

Therefore, the EDPB invites the co-legislators to reflect on the relevance of the processing of each 
special category of personal data and, following such assessment, to define explicitly under Article 55 
the special categories of data that could be strictly necessary for the purpose of AML/CFT. 

Furthermore, the EDPB recalls that Article 9 GDPR lays down specific rules regarding the processing of 
special categories of personal data according to which an exemption from the general prohibition of 
processing  special  categories  of  personal  data  is  possible  where  the  processing  is  necessary  for 
reasons of substantial public interest, on the basis of Union or Member State law. Such law allowing 
the processing of special categories of data shall be “proportionate to the aim pursued, respect the 
essence of the right to data protection and provide for suitable and specific measures to safeguard 
the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject”.17  

The EDPB considers that the specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and interests of 
the data subjects provided in Article 55 are not sufficient.  

                                                           
15 See EDPS opinion 12/2021, para 12. 
16 In the Netherlands, thousands of households were wrongly accused of fraud by the Dutch Tax authority, pushing many 
into serious financial problems, often triggered by ethnicity. This example shows how serious the impact of unlawful the 
processing of (special category of) personal data can be for EU citizens. 
17 See article 9(2)(g) GDPR. 
 

 

 

Firstly,  the  EDPB  considers  that  Article  55  should  specify  the  specific  purpose  (preventing  money 
laundering  or  terrorism  financing) for  which  each  category  of  personal  data  falling  under  Article  9 
GDPR are likely to be processed18.  

Moreover, the specific measures (identification, customer due diligence, reporting to FIU) for which 
these categories of personal data may be processed should also be identified by the AML legislative 
proposals.  

In addition, for each of these categories of personal data, further specifications should be warranted 
in Article 55.   

In  order  to  avoid  that  decisions  are  made  on  a  basis  of  discriminatory  factors,  it  should  be  also 
specified that the assessment made by obliged entities shall not be solely based on the processing of 
special categories of personal data.  

Furthermore, Article 55 should require the adoption by obliged entities of state-of-the-art security 
measures, such as access restrictions, obfuscation, encryption, pseudonymisation or disassociation.  

Others safeguards could include the application of specific data minimisation techniques19, training of 
staff  for  handling  special  categories  of  personal  data,  as  well  as  specific  transparency  and 
accountability provisions on the handling of special categories of personal data. 

2.2.   Regarding the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences 

Article 55(3)(b) of the Proposal for a Regulation applying to the private sector lays down that obliged 
entities may process not only data relating to criminal convictions but also “allegations”.  

The EDPB considers that the processing of such data presents a high level of risk, considering that the 
term “allegations” is not defined and that the sources from which information on allegations may be 
collected  are  not  precisely  mentioned.  In  addition, the  EDPB  notes that  the  impact  on  the  person 
concerned could be significant (refusal for a bank to enter into a commercial relationship with the 
person  to  whom  the  allegation  relates),  whereas  in  some  cases,  the  allegation  could  be  not 
substantiated. Therefore, the EDPB considers that the term “allegation” should be specified in Article 
55, or deleted.20  

The  EDPB  also  recalls  that  Article  10  GDPR  lays  down  specific  rules  regarding  the  processing  of 
personal data related to criminal convictions and offences. The processing of such data can be carried 
out  when  the  processing  is  authorized  by  Union  or  Member State  law  providing  for  appropriate 
safeguards  for  the  data  subjects’  rights  and  freedoms.  Any  comprehensive  register  of  criminal 
convictions shall be kept only under the control of official authority. 

In  this  respect,  the  EDPB  notes  that  Article  55(3)(b) provides,  as  specific  safeguard,  that  obliged 
entities shall implement procedures that allow, when processing such data, to make the distinction 

                                                           
18 Some obliged entities are currently making a distinction between the processing carried out in order to prevent and detect 
money laundering and those carried out in order to prevent and detect terrorist financing.  
19 See EDPB guidelines on Data Protection by Design and by Default, page 21, paragraph 76 
20 See EDPS Opinion 12/2021. para 16. 
 

 

 

between  allegations, 
fundamental right to a fair trial, the right of defense and the presumption of innocence.  

investigations,  proceedings  and  convictions,  taking 

into  account  the 

Nonetheless, the EDPB considers that the safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects in 
Article 55 are not sufficient and therefore additional safeguards should be introduced. In particular, 
the EDPB recommends that Article 55 specifies that allegations or judicial proceedings should not have 
the same impact on the risk assessment of a person as a criminal conviction. 

3.  The need to provide additional provisions in relation to the sources of information  

 
3.1.   General considerations  

According to Article 55(2)(b) of the Proposal for a Regulation applying to the private sector, obliged 
entities may process  special categories of data  covered by Article 9 GDPR “provided that the data 
originate from reliable sources, are accurate and up-to-date”. 

The EDPB considers that the  obligation to use  reliable, accurate  and up-to-date  sources  should be 
extended to every information processed by obliged entities for the purpose of AML/CFT.  

Moreover,  since  the  processing  of  inaccurate  and  irrelevant  data  would  result  in  a  breach  of  the 
principles under Articles 5(1)(c) and 5(1)(d) GDPR, to ensure compliance with these “accuracy” and 
“minimisation” principles, as well as with the “accountability” principle stated in article 5(2) GDPR21, 
the EDPB strongly recommends adding specific safeguards regarding the sources to be used by obliged 
entities. In particular, the EDPB suggests to include an express reference to the obligation for obliged 
entities to use only accurate and reliable sources (as said, for any processing of personal data), and to 
add a specific obligation for obliged entities to document the assessment of the reliability and accuracy 
of each source of information used.   

3.2.  The need to provide specific provisions for the processing of personal data by providers of 

so-called “watchlists” 

A  vast majority  of  obliged entities  currently makes  use  of  service  providers  (providers of  so-called 
“watchlists”) in the context of the performance of their activities pursuant to AML/CFT requirements.  

The EDPB acknowledges the need for the obliged entities to rely on this kind of services in order to 
fulfill  their  AML/CFT  obligations.  Providers  of  “watchlists”  offer  an  easier  and  faster  access  to 
information to the obliged entities. Consequently, these providers could contribute to the effective 
implementation of the AML/CFT obligations.   

However,  the  processing  of  personal  data  performed  by  these  ‘’watchlists’’  raises  important  data 
protection  issues.  The  providers  of  these  “watchlists”  are  acting  as  data  controllers,  as  defined  in 
Article 4(7) GDPR. They are processing special categories of personal data and personal data relating 
to criminal convictions and offences, the processing of which shall comply with the specific rules under 
Article 9 and 10 GDPR.22 Moreover, the legal basis (Article 6 GDPR) for the processing of personal data 

                                                           
21 The controller shall be responsible for, and be able to demonstrate compliance with, paragraph 1 (‘accountability’) 
22 According to article 10 GDPR, processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences shall be carried out 
only under the control of official authority or when the processing is authorised by Union or Member State law providing for 
appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects. Similarly, according to Article 9 GDPR, special categories 
of data can be processed only when it is necessary for reasons of substantial public interest, on the basis of Union or Member  

 

 

by such providers is not clear, and the data processing at stake raise legitimate questions regarding 
the accuracy principle and the data minimisation principle laid down in Articles 5(1)(c) and (d) GDPR .  

In light  of the risks to the fundamental rights and freedoms for  the data subjects  and the need to 
provide legal certainty to these providers and to the obliged entities, the EDPB considers that specific 
rules might be included in the AML legislative proposals or via a dedicated EU legislative initiative.  

These  specific  rules  must  be  in  line  with  GDPR  requirements,  and  should  allow,  if  necessary,  the 
processing  of  special  categories  of  data  and  of  personal  data  relating  to  criminal  convictions  and 
offences under strict conditions defined in Articles 9 and 10 GDPR. The nature of personal data that 
can be processed by such providers according to the data minimisation principle (Article 5(1)(c) GDPR) 
should  be  specified.  Strong  and  specific  measures  to  safeguard  the  fundamental  rights  and  the 
interests of the data subjects  should be established too. As stated above, the EDPB  considers that 
providing  specific  rules  for  these  service  providers  would  serve  the  purpose  of  fighting  money 
laundering and countering terrorist financing.  

In case where such rules are not provided, national supervisory authorities have the task to enforce 
data  protection  law  in  case  of  breaches  by  providers  and  obliged  entities,  notably  regarding  the 
processing of special categories of personal data and of personal data relating to criminal convictions 
and offences. 

Finally, in case where specific rules would be provided for these providers, the EDPB also invites the 
co-legislators to include in the AML legislative proposals a reference to codes of conduct under Article 
40 GDPR and to certifications under Article 42 GDPR for providers of ‘’watchlists’’, to be developed 
taking into account the specificities of this sector.23 

 

Yours sincerely, 

 

Andrea Jelinek 

                                                           
State law which shall be proportionate to the aim pursued, respect the essence of the right to data protection and provide 
for suitable and specific measures to safeguard the fundamental rights and the interests of the data subject. 
23 See EDPS Opinion 12/2021, para 46. 
 

 

