




Press release from the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information Mecklenburg-West Pomerania
relief for companies







No.20220204
|
02/04/2022
|
DSMV
|
datenschutz-mv.de

IHK Neubrandenburg and the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information MV welcome the use of the Corona warning app for contact tracing
So far, companies in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania have been obliged to collect contact details from their customers. The purpose was to trace contacts in order to forward the data to the health authorities in the event of an infection. The companies were responsible for ensuring that the data was collected and stored securely. Completely independent of whether slips were filled out or the survey was carried out digitally, for example with the Luca app.
The country's new Corona Protection Ordinance is now making things easier: companies can also fulfill their obligation to trace contacts using the QR code created in the Corona Warning app. This can be scanned by the customers. The advantage of this is that the data of the stay is stored on your own cell phone and no longer with the company. This means that companies in the country are no longer responsible for data protection law, as they no longer receive any customer data at all. "A win-win situation for everyone," says Heinz Müller, the State Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information M-V. “Citizens regain sovereignty over their contact details. The health authorities are relieved of contact tracing with the Corona-Warn-App. And companies no longer have to take any liability risks under data protection law,” concludes Müller.
"This is good news for the economy in the region and in the state," says Torsten Haasch, General Manager of the IHK Neubrandenburg for eastern Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. "Even so, the effort of the entrepreneurs remains very high because they have to implement the additional hygiene measures. Any relief, including no longer having to record the contact details of customers and business partners, is therefore a win for them so that they can concentrate on their core business."









                Back to overview









